MATT: Hello everyone and welcome to
tonight's episode of Critical Role
where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors
sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons.
ALL: We play Dungeons & Dragons!
MATT: There you have it.
Before we jump into tonight's session,
we do have some announcements
that'll begin with some sponsors,
but part of the first sponsorship
ties in with one of the announcements,
so I'll go and get to that first.
For those who haven't seen on social media,
the announcements and such,
we've partnered with our friends at
Dungeons & Dragons and Wizards of the Coast
to release an upcoming
Explorer's Guide to Wildemount, an actual--
(cheering)
- full setting, full campaign setting
for the entirety of the continent
of Wildemount that you guys have watched
in this campaign and so much more beyond that.
It's been, like, a year plus of my life
on top of everything else to work it out.
I'm super proud of it and the wonderful contributors
that helped flesh out the world
even just beyond what I had worked on.
It's something I'm really proud of and I hope you guys
have an opportunity to check it out.
It's up for preorder now where are places
you can mostly find RPG book preorders
and it'll be coming out on March 17th,
so about two months from now.
It's got not just, like, world lore
and, you know, a lot of elements about
just the story and setting-centric stuff,
there's a lot of player options
including three new sub-classes, dunamancy spells,
some new sub-races, some other fun stuff, new creatures,
new magical items, new artifacts and Vestiges of Divergence.
It's going to be a lot of fun, so I hope you enjoy it.
And for those of you who are looking to buy it
or preorder it and can afford it,
I highly recommend you go do so at your local game store.
You know, online sometimes is the only way people
can afford it, but if you can, support those local shops.
That's where the community thrives, so definitely do so.
(whooping)
And leading into that, our first sponsor tonight
is our returning friends at D&D Beyond.
ALL: D&D Beyond!
MATT: Which, on D&D Beyond, preorders for
the content of Explorer's Guide to Wildemount
are also now open, so if you use the tool
and you want to look forward to incorporating
some of these things into your game
and your whole D&D Beyond portfolio of content,
to be able to preorder now on there.
You can grab the digital version right now and receive
a bonus, looks like six exclusive character sheet
backgrounds in six matching color themes
to go with the book's release,
which is awesome, and they also have
some other great promos going that you can find
on the site at dndbeyond.link/critter.
Go ahead and check that out and thank you guys so much
for supporting our show for as long as you have.
Our second sponsor tonight, (clears throat)
as I prepare myself, is NordVPN. Sam.
SAM: Hold my calls and greetings, netizens!
It's the master of the dark web,
online known as blackwillow73@aol.com.
I'm cracking code and spinning my webs with ease
because my hardware's protected by NordVPN,
a personal virtual private network service provider
with 5,000 servers in 60 countries
that shields you from hackzors like me,
protects you on public wifi, and even blocks annoying ads.
Yeah, I know everything about
the info super-biway except the identity
of that black hat evildoer, Cryptonic Override.
But tonight, I'm going to jack in
(laughter)
to their mainframe
and expose them to the world wide world.
(keyboard clicking) Here we go.
Jamming the matrix, hashing the DDR.
What, I've been sliced?
CRYPTONIC OVERRIDE (V.O.): Aw, so close, Black Willow,
but I, Cryptonic Override, am also using NordVPN.
They have a promo going on right now
which gives you 70% off a three-year plan
and one extra month for free.
Oh well, have a slice day. (laughs)
SAM: Ah, I failed.
Or did I?
Computer, reload that audio clip
but retro-flop the transmish.
CRYPTONIC OVERRIDE (V.O.): [Fragmented] Have a slice day.
SAM: Okay, now un-route the bus map
and quantize the Fraggle Rock.
(zapping)
Closer.
Now backdate the disco dongle and enhance.
CRYPTONIC OVERRIDE (V.O.)" Have a slice day,
slice, slice, sli-sli-slice.
LAURA (V.O.): Have a slice day. (laughs)
SAM: Wait, Cryptonic Override is...
Laura Bailey?!
ASHLEY: What?!
TRAVIS: Whoa!
SAM: (screaming)
LAURA: You cracked my code, Black Willow.
Let's settle this the way all leet hackzors do,
with a head-to-head hack off.
SAM: (gasping)
LAURA: Do you accept?
SAM: 0111001,
which is binary for yes.
LAURA: Ready, set, hack!
(keyboards clicking)
SAM: Oh, you're putting spyware on my aux interface?
Try re-troglodyting the CD-ROM.
LAURA: Oh, a triple-ask encounter virus?
1995 called, Sandra Bullock wants her moves back.
(keyboards clicking)
(laughter)
Oh, you're trying to scramble my jumbotron?
Yeah, good luck.
It's password protected.
It's swordfish.
It's always swordfish.
Damn it.
(laughter)
(groans) No, you're gleaming my cube!
That's right, Black Willow, you're going down--
huh?
We, we both got sliced?
Simul-sliced.
But by, by who?
How?
Oh my god.
The ultra codex.
It's, it's going to infect the whole world.
Which means we're going to have to--
Hack the planet.
Find out what happens next time,
find out what happens next time NordVPN sponsors the show.
Until then, learn more at nordvpn.com/criticalrole
and be sure to use our coupon code
criticalrole at check out.
Matt?
Hack to you.
(laughter)
I think you mean if, if.
(talking over each other)
(laughter)
Laura Bailey.
(cheering)
I'm not going to lie, now I'm invested.
(laughter)
What is the ultra codex, Matt?
You don't know.
I don't know.
Who does, who does?
It's a new top ten.
That was just well done.
Do we have any time left to play D&D, though?
(laughter)
We'll try and squeeze it in.
Okay.
Well.
The planet needs to be hacked.
Yeah.
We better--
Troglodyte got me.
I can't even.
Swordfish hurt.
Thank you, Sam,
thank you, Laura, and thank you, NordVPN for sponsoring us.
Simul-slice?
Simul-slice.
Simul-slice was pretty good.
It's hardcore.
It's a dangerous world.
Leap.
So, those are the announcements.
Unless anyone else has anything else they want to mention,
I think that's the end of our list
and we can jump into tonight's session.
So, let's go ahead and jump into
tonight's episode of Critical Role.
(growling)
(water bubbling)
(booming)
(exploding)
♪ Roll that critical, critical ♪
♪ Roll that critical ♪
♪ The adventure begins, they were always beside you ♪
♪ Your nerdy best friends and the DM to guide you ♪
♪ And they rise from the flames for the battles ahead ♪
♪ Villains beware because you're 'bout to be dead ♪
(upbeat rock music)
♪ They got magic and flair, they got falchions and cunning ♪
♪ They don't see over there, there's a monster incoming ♪
♪ Inspiration is waiting ♪
♪ Rise up, don't think twice ♪
♪ Put your fate in your hands ♪
♪ Take a chance, roll the dice, roll the dice ♪
♪ Role critical, roll the dice ♪
♪ Can you answer the call ♪
♪ Dig in deep in your soul ♪
♪ As the legend unfolds ♪
♪ Now it's your turn, your turn, your turn, to roll ♪
(flames whooshing)
And welcome back.
So, we'll have a Laura Bailey here now, there she is.
(cheering)
Welcome back, welcome back.
My l33t gear off.
I understand.
Don't want to lose your focus.
So last we left off, The Mighty Nein
has been working between the Dwendalian Empire
and the Kryn Dynasty to try and arrange some sort of
negotiation to bring us to a semblance of
peace talks between these two places.
You were given the option by King Dwendal
to essentially clear the slate of what could be
some problematic behavior from their perspective
in your dealings with the Dynasty by arranging this.
You went ahead and ran some errands,
fought some people in a basement of a butchery,
ordered some musical instruments,
and then eventually made your way back to Rosohna
where you checked into your Xhorhaus in Xhorhas,
met up with Shadowhand Essek, and made your way
to the Bright Queen's throne room.
There, you beseeched her, on behalf of the Dwendalian Empire
and the relationship you already forged,
to listen to what you had to say, what you've discovered,
what you've accomplished, and what you were sent to do.
Through some relatively persuasive arguments
and some key notes made in the center
of that chamber within the Lucid Bastion,
you succeeded in convincing her to allow
not only for it to happen but for you guys
to be somewhat present during these negotiations.
You were sent to return this information onward to
the Dwendalian Empire and an arrangement will be made
at some point in the future where these will take place,
under the absolutely necessary scenario
that the ceasefire is maintained on both sides.
There is very much a mutually assured
reinstated conflict should anything poorly go down.
You returned towards the Xhorhaus, you
messaged an encroaching series of questions upon Essek,
you went into your home, and after
setting yourselves up in the early parts of the evening
to have a night back in the house that you were gifted
based on your deeds here in Rosohna,
began to play a cacophony
of musical something.
Actually, you were doing pretty good
along with the tiny piano and the--
TALIESIN: There's only so much you can do with a--
There's only so much you can do with a bone flute.
I think Frumpkin rolled the highest.
I think so, but Frumpkin usually does.
When he's not killed in one hit. (laughs)
So,
after your loud performance display,
thrashing the ears of the neighborhood,
who had thought it calm and silent
for oh so long in your absence--
(laughs) Yeah.
And what would you like to do with the evening?
You're hungry, you're tired.
Essek isn't with us or anything, right?
Mm-mm.
No.
Do you want food, do you want to sleep?
You're hungry, you're tired, whatta you want?
(laughter)
Fjord's been drinking.
Damn that mass of new faces.
(laughter)
New face, new face!
Well, maybe before we go to bed, we should plot out
our next moves for the next few (sniffs) days, weeks.
We've done our duty here, we don't have to
hurry back to Rexxentrum, yeah?
Do we?
That's true.
I mean, are we, are we meant to contact
the Dwendal's people and tell them about the arrangement?
In time.
We probably should, yeah.
That will be the next thing and then probably
getting the ship in order, I guess.
Yes.
But there's no pressing,
like, we don't have to do that today, right?
Well, the longer we wait, the more of a chance
there is for something to slip and the--
Oh, right.
War to restart.
We have to let them know right away
to, like, hey, not fight.
Yes, yes,
we do have to let them know right away.
Yeah, so we should contact them now, tonight?
Did I already do that?
I think we did that.
We did, you messaged--
Ludinus.
Oh, that's right, we did, we did.
Hey, we're so, I remember that, of course.
I say we have a leisurely evening, a leisurely morning,
make our way back tomorrow.
To?
To deliver whatever other information we need to.
You have armor to pick up here.
(gasping)
Right?
Yes.
Yeah.
I do.
I forgot about that but I have to--
Do you have to finish paying for it?
Finish paying for it, which I think,
how much do I have left on it?
Believe it was about 2,000 gold left on that.
Yikes!
We can make that.
It is 2,000.
I've been keeping a little mental to do list.
Can I just run it through you guys and you can
tell me what's important on the to do list?
Totally.
Yeah, of course.
'Kay, there's Traveler Con.
Yeah, that's coming up soon.
How soon?
Weeks.
About five weeks, little over five weeks, maybe.
I have to make sure Orly's going to
be there when we get there.
I wonder how long it's going to take
to get from Nicodranas over there.
I'll have to contact Orly.
Do we need costumes?
Do we need anything, like, is there a uniform?
I don't know.
Assuming our ship survives this treaty talks.
Yeah.
Other things in my
mental list to do list that's written down,
Darrow, maybe scry on him.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah,
we could do that.
Why?
Because he's got a client
that he won't tell us about!
And he won't tell us who
it is, obviously.
We could scry on him
and find out who the client is and get useful intel
or at least just fuck with him.
That's true, yeah.
Yeah.
All good options.
Vence, scry on him.
He's unscryable.
Mm.
With the necklace thingy.
Yeah.
Pride Silk at Pride's Call for Keona?
Yeah, that's kind of like a--
She wanted the worms--
Yeah,
It's kind of a bonus one.
You have to smuggle out the worms and then we could get paid
a decent amount of money.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But the worms are real big and real sacred
and they're real protective of them,
so it'd be like a worm heist.
That seems like plenty of areas
for us to fuck up--
Yeah.
Cool, though.
There are
Jagentoths in Shadycreek Run that exist.
Jagentoths.
I don't know.
I mean, we kind of of knew that, though.
Yeah, but I, did we need to go
and look it up or something?
Did we want to murder them?
I don't know.
Oh, I don't know.
Are we murdering people?
Maybe?
Are we--
Should I send them a message and let them know that
we're going to kill them?
I feel like,
(laughter)
that, (sputters)
okay, hang on, though.
Should we, are we above,
we've risen up in echelon in society, right,
to not murder people without cause, right?
Which society are you talking about?
The Dynasty or the Empire?
The, the human one, the--
I'm not human.
You know, where--
Speak for yourself.
Well, no, okay, the--
Civilization.
Thank you, civilization.
We are rather high profile everywhere now.
There's the, who?
We are well known--
We are?
We are The Mighty Nein of--
We are, we are.
(snapping)
The youth of the nation.
Couple other, couple other
options for us.
That's exactly
what I'm saying.
Caduceus has
some unfinished family business, I believe.
I figure that's in the direction of Traveler Con.
I figured I would hit you all up for accompanying me
to that.
On the way?
Either on the way or after, whichever is more convenient.
On the way would be wonderful.
I also wrote down snea snake for some reason.
Don't know what that means.
I don't know.
And we need basilisk oil for Pumat Sol.
(gasps) Oh.
Those are the outstanding
to do list items.
Did he say where
we were supposed to get that?
That's a good list.
That is a really good list.
Shit.
Where, you need to stop by somewhere on,
and where is it on our, if we're up
in Xhorhas and we're going down?
I'll probably scry a bit more, but it's a little past,
if I recall, if I--
The place that you've
been contemplating would be the possible location for this
is south of Xhorhas, to the east of Nicodranas.
It's, if you want to pull up a--
Pull up a map
A map of the Menagerie Coast, perhaps.
Is this the right one?
Uh, no.
Menagerie Coast and/or Xhorhas.
Want to set them both out?
We have so many maps.
How far down does the Xhorhas one go?
We need the Coast, there it is.
This is where,
(paper rustling)
(feet scuffling)
(chairs knocking)
that is where you're thinking,
the Whitedawn Lagoon, and--
Whitedawn, there we are.
This would link approximately about
there,
in this vicinity.
Can I invent a Thomas guide?
I was just laughing at that.
I so felt that.
I felt it, I felt it from you.
So, the negotiation, the location
where you had it agreed upon, which was
between the Whitedawn Lagoon and Nicodranas--
Okay.
Which is
just south of the border between Xhorhas and the Empire.
Okay.
(paper rustling)
So, it's kind of either,
depending on where you start,
wherever your ship picks you up, either you go there before,
if you're coming from Xhorhas' direction,
or go there after if you're coming from Nicodranas,
it'd be like your easiest one.
Go to--
It's up to you.
Go to Xhorhas.
That, we could do that, I would appreciate that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Not going to pretend
I'm not a little nervous, but yeah.
(knocking)
Hit your place on the way down to--
Oh, someone starts knocking on the door.
There's a knock at the door.
Who is--
Wait,
do we need to hide anything?
Is anything out that's illegal?
Like, beside ourselves?
I'm going to go to the door.
Mmkay.
You go ahead and peek through
the curtain there in the front and you see behind it
the familiar visage of Essek, the Shadowhand.
Oh, hey.
We just saw you.
Opening the door.
Ting-a-ding-ding-ding.
Thank you.
Is this a noise complaint?
No, it's, it is not a noise complaint.
I just, ah,
(gentle music)
if you would have a guest for dinner perhaps?
Oh.
Come on in, Essek,
we invited you before.
Come, come, come.
I thought about it.
I hadn't really, you know, done something like this
in awhile and perhaps it is--
something I should do.
Insight check.
Oh yeah.
Make an insight check.
"Do I, do I believe him?"
is what she wants to say.
Does he have,
do I believe him with an
insight check?
I know,
make an insight check.
Did he bring the wine?
Actually, he did.
Ah.
He takes it out from under his cloak and hands it over.
This is Solvia Grove's Diamond Plum Wine.
Oh.
He didn't even notice--
I'll decant it right away.
(laughter)
Yeah, natural 20.
Natural 20?
(chair scraping)
Holy.
All right.
He has do a little spin on the way over for a natural 20.
Wow, wow.
This whisper is
brought to you by--
NordVPN.
They can protect you on the internet.
Nothing can protect us from the dangers
that abound in Wildemount, but--
If you don't split-slicers.
Split-slicers?
Simul-slicers?
That's hard.
I was like, "This isn't it."
Also, that's very hard to say.
(laughter)
Spit-slicers.
This is why Laura got the job.
(laughter)
I really, I mean, it was a bad audition.
I was having a bad day.
"This is hard to say."
(laughter)
(throat clearing)
My apologies.
And you watch as he like,
after stepping into the chamber
and handing off the bottle of wine,
he (blows) stops hovering and lands on his feet
and unfastens the mantle--
Oh, we're going to see behind
the curtain.
His body?
Since we've never seen his body before.
(laughter)
It's like a reverse Krang.
Don't Google reverse Krang, by the way.
(laughter)
I did that once, in college.
But no, he removes the mantle and sets it on
one of the chairs in the foyer area of the Xhorhaus
and he's dressed in a nice, comfortable clothes,
well-trimmed--
Juicy Couture. (laughs)
(laughter)
Yeah, it's just--
Just says juicy on the ass.
Yup.
(laughter)
It's from the Rosohna, it was
Victoria's Secret, comfortable on.
No, it's actually not, not too different
from your Xhorhasian outfit as you had it tailored,
the design of which you requested is loosely based
on similar designs you've seen around the city
and his is more of a designer version of that,
but comfortable and sleek--
Designer, though.
It would be.
Fancy, he's fancy.
He's fancy.
Do you float all the time?
I'm sorry, I called it float.
It just seems you're always gliding.
Not all the time.
For me, it's more of a, (sighs)
I don't know, it's an expectation, I guess.
People expect it of you?
When you're young and impetuous,
you tend to do things to try and impress people
and then once you've set a sort of expectation
for a presentation, you have to maintain it.
(chuckling)
It's your gimmick!
More or less.
So, people just expect you to float everywhere?
Yes.
Does it make you tired?
Not particularly.
I mean,
walking makes you tired, if you
think about it.
Can you make, yeah,
can you make anyone float?
Or it's just yourself?
I mean,
via certain incantations, of course, but this is
more of just a developed for myself type trick.
Gimmick, if you will.
Bringing out some wine.
Here you go.
It still needs more time
to air it.
I'm
going to go get everything going in the kitchen.
I'll have everything up and running
real quick.
In for a treat.
Caduceus is going to cook.
I'm very excited.
Thank you very much.
Come into the dining room.
We have a dining room, right?
So are you single?
Do you have kids?
What's your last name?
Let's sit down
and do some small talk first.
Okay, come on in.
Oh, sit down.
I'll build a fire.
(chuckling)
Oh, I'll start heating up the hot tub just in case later.
Okay.
It takes like an hour to--
Very presumptuous.
Yes.
Where you from?
Here.
Are you married?
No.
What's your mother's name?
(laughter)
Well, my mother's name is
Deirta Thelyss, she is the Umavi of my den.
Umavi.
Oh, wow.
(paper rustling)
What was your last name again?
Thelyss.
Which den? Thelyss Den.
Thelyss, Den Thelyss.
Yes.
Den Thelyss.
One of
the multitude of dens. (chuckles)
Shall we sit?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Come on, have a seat on this couch.
(chuckling)
Assume we have couches.
Yeah, ottomans.
It's just chaise lounges.
Just everywhere.
So uncomfortable.
Please, faint on this
fainting couch.
I'm not imposing, am I?
No, we were just playing a concert for--
I was wondering what that sound was.
That was us.
It carries quite a distance.
Oh, yeah?
Yes.
Good.
It's how we focus.
After a huge meeting,
we play
and join our thoughts as one.
(laughter)
An unfamiliar custom, but--
It grows on you.
Hey, it is not unlike some things
I've seen in Asarius.
Mm-hmm.
Frumpkin jumps into his lap.
Oh.
Hello.
So,
what is the mood here
in the Dynasty here?
Right now, it is tension.
A little bit of frustration in the halting of what was
to be a very successful raid on Rexxentrum.
(laughter)
Oh.
(gentle music)
(whispering)
Tense.
That's primarily it.
This is so far removed from the front lines,
it's mostly just information disseminated via
word of mouth and the occasional street speaker, but
warfare makes for
not entirely pleasant opinions of the opposing side.
The tension in the throne room was fairly easy to read.
My wonder what the dens, the various dens,
think the people here.
That varies from den to den.
There are numerous, so, and it depends
on which opinion you want.
How about Den Thelyss?
Den Thelyss,
they would like very much to see
our nation established and respected
in the broader sense of the world.
Unfortunately, our most neighboring nation
tends to consider most everything to the east
savage landscapes and
dangerous cutthroats and
drow are killers and everything else, so.
And that is foolish.
That has not been our experience here.
But there are people on our end and many folks who assume
that the Empire is nothing but a bunch of
money-crazed, murderous villagers ready to kill each other
for a scrap of meat.
That is very true.
That's how everyone is there.
Lot's of--
Really?
No.
Jester, that's not,
that's--
Not true.
I care little for politics, to be honest.
But it seems you did as well, but circumstances
thrust us into spaces where we least expect.
What do you care for?
What are, you know, your hobbies
and things that you like to do?
Pet peeves?
Allergies?
Hopefully none of this.
A cheese and vegetable plate comes out.
You can see, like, the tension breaks
when you set it down and he's like,
"Thank you so much."
Right.
Main course coming, thank you, thank you.
Thank you, Caduceus.
This looks delicious.
Do you need help in there, Caduceus?
I'll be, I'll be just a minute, I'm fine.
That's a stay the fuck outta
the kitchen.
Yeah, I got that.
I'll cut you.
(laughter)
This is where Caduceus gets violent. (laughs)
You've asked me quite a few questions
and I'm willing to converse, but I'm curious,
I'm curious to get to know you as well.
What is it you want to achieve?
What are your goals?
What are the things you are looking to do?
I assume you weren't intending to bring a Beacon here
and throw yourself into the midst of this chaos, so
(chuckling)
what else it is pushes you forward?
Would it surprise you to know that perhaps a year ago,
we didn't even know of a Beacon
or of the Dynasty or of any of this?
Hm.
We knew of bacon,
just not of a Beacon.
Important distinction.
We all have individual goals and
issues that we're working on, but--
What about you?
Oh, me?
Yes.
Um--
Tell him.
Maybe he can do it.
I'll take a big sip of wine.
I,
I've just had some,
I'm not myself
and haven't been for awhile and was,
(sighs) like many of us, we're all sort of searching for,
well, many of us are searching for sort of
who we are, but mine is much more
odd because I know I'm not,
I'm not supposed to be like this and I'm trying to
change myself, physically.
Hm.
So, this is not your original form?
No, and actually, being in the throne room of your Queen,
it actually gave me a lot of hope.
I mean, seeing that people among you
and her and some of the den leaders, I suppose,
have changed form and shape many times over and put their
spirits into other bodies.
This is true.
It's actually given me a lot of hope.
They said that, when we were in there,
that you had to be, what was the term again?
Consecuted.
That is a process, though I would say
it is one that requires a lot of patience.
It is a bit convoluted.
Does it take a long time?
The ritual itself takes about a day.
Is it painful?
The consecution is not.
The process of having to die to be consecuted
or returned to a new form, ah, depending,
can be painful, I'm sure.
How do they do it?
Well, they don't kill them once they're consecuted,
but when life comes to an end
and they are within a radial region of a Beacon,
then the soul is taken by the Beacon
and then implanted within a new life.
Have there ever been any instances
of outsiders having this done?
No one who has not been bound to the Beacons
via consecution has fallen into its net.
It is a requirement for the process.
Are you consecuted?
I am.
You're not excited about it?
I mean, prolonging life is divine.
But I think religion is a, (clicks tongue)
I would say a crutch to some spaces.
(fingers drumming)
(chuckles) I mean, the Dynasty is
so focused on this Luxon, this religion,
and the possibility of what it means,
but it's distracting them from what other good things
they could do with the time and focus, maybe.
And it's selective, right?
Not everyone in the Dynasty is consecuted,
so there are some that expire in this life
and that's the end for them.
There is a,
an expectation of advancement
within the faith to be consecuted.
I
really do not care for the
specific theology behind it,
but I was lucky enough and privileged enough
to be born within a den to where it was not questioned,
but--
So, it's reserved
for people within certain families.
Well, it's expended into those
that aren't part of the dens,
but they don't just consecute anyone
who steps into the Dynasty and requests it.
And you are, forgive me, on your first life?
Yes, I'm nearly the youngest of my den.
Forgive me if this is presumptuous.
How old are you?
I would be close to 120 years.
Yeah, the same for all of us, just a (trails off).
Do you have to be consecuted every single lifetime?
No, once you're consecuted, the process continues, yes.
For thousands of years, you're just there.
Well, until you die too far from a Beacon.
Ohh.
That's--
That's, that's a thing.
You see, that is why the Beacons are so important.
They allow the expansion of our civilization.
Right.
If a city
does not exist within some radius of a Beacon,
everyone within that city is unable to return.
And just to follow our thought experiment
with our friend Nott here, if she were
to be consecuted, she would need to remain here.
Well, you would have to ensure
that if you were to pass away,
it was within the radius of a beacon, yes.
But again, you would, she would be transferred to
a new body and a new, young life, not a current one.
Correct, and you would--
Like a baby?
Yes, and you would grow and age.
How old are you before you realize
you're the same person you were before?
A little bit into adolescence.
You begin to have dreams and visions
of memories of your previous life or lives
and you begin to seek out members of the Dynasty
to then bring you through this anamnesis process
in which you are to combine your current life's memories
with the personality's memories of your previous lives
to become one.
Yeah, that's--
Sounds very confusing.
I'm sure.
I've not done it myself.
But, like,
what's to keep somebody else from coming and say,
"Oh, I'm the Queen, I'm the Bright Queen's soul."
Well, those who would receive her
would then ask many questions that only
the Bright Queen would know the answer to.
I guess that makes sense.
Do you remember your previous life fully?
I don't know.
I have not undergone this process myself.
Has anyone, like, an adult been,
have you used an adult body before instead of a infant?
I think what he's saying is that a new life
is born and the soul is within it--
It is not of our choosing,
it is the choosing of the Beacon.
That's some Dalai Lama shit.
Wow.
I mean, we've had issues in the past where Beacons
and our soldiers were killed on foreign soil
and then souls were born in elements of the Empire.
We had one conflict about
13, 14 years ago on the northern side of the Empire
in which many of soldiers on both sides were killed.
And recently, some of those spirits
began to undergo anamnesis there, around Nogvurot
and as such, we helped the children return to the destiny--
Holy moly!
As such have now been
reintroduced into our society.
So, Empire kids
might turn 15 and be like, "Oh, shit, I'm a Kryn.
"I have to go back."
Under the rare conditions in which
a spirit that has been consecuted were to
die near a Beacon, away from the Dynasty.
That's why, do you remember, the cryers were going,
"Children are being stolen from Nogvurot"?
Mm, that would make sense.
A unique spin to the tale.
Stolen from Nogvurot?
So, they may have just awakened and left.
Fuck.
Wow.
Whoa, shit.
I wonder how old those children were.
Adolescents, I bet.
There's food.
Oh!
All right.
Oh, wow.
So, to your point,
it is possibly a way, though there is no
guarantee which body will find you
It could very well be another goblin,
it could be one of our fine drow, which is not so bad,
it could be all manner of creature.
If what you are seeking is some sort of a
transference to a new body,
I don't think that's within my purview.
Can you just turn this body into a different body?
I do not know of such magic myself, unfortunately.
There are rumors of extremely powerful
polymorph spells and incantations, but even those
have limitations that can be temporary or dispelled.
(throat clearing)
But if I hear anything, I will let you know.
If we hear of something, could we ask your aid--
If I can.
In deciphering it?
So, you live alone, huh?
I do.
You mentioned that you felt like the Dynasty
could utilize its time for much better purposes.
What would you see the Dynasty do?
I would not focus so much on
pressing these religious beliefs
that are based on myth and interpretation.
I know gods exist because we have proof
and there are those who speak to them,
there are visions and miracles that happen.
But the Luxons do not speak to anyone.
It's a lot of religion based on assumption,
on existing scripture written by individuals
hundreds and hundreds of years ago.
(package rustling)
There is power in the Beacons
and dunamancy in itself is something unique.
That, I think, is worth pursuing.
The rest of this is a distraction.
Is that pursuit frowned upon or largely ignored?
Like a standard is kept and additional
knowledge not sought out?
It's not so much ignored more than
not as much of a priority.
It's like not knowing how deep the ocean is.
Indeed.
Do you know how deep
the ocean is?
It's pretty fucking deep.
And that is what I spend my time
toiling away, is to find those depths.
And there is so much, so much untapped possibility
in the utilization of Dunamis.
I, to answer your question of what it is I want to do.
And I believe you, you can understand this,
and I can see a similar spark in you, Caleb.
I want to unlock these mysteries.
I want to dive as deep as I can into that
ocean of the unknown and see what is possible.
Are you saying, are you saying you want to date Fjord?
I don't think that's what he's saying.
That isn't what I was saying.
I'm sorry, I was distracted by, there's cookies.
Yeah, and also the ocean talk.
Yeah, the ocean, dive deep into the ocean.
It's a metaphor.
Rip that open real fast.
Rip it, rip it.
Go for it.
I believe in you.
Get it.
Yeah.
(laughter)
He turns back to Caleb and says,
"To pursue beyond the limits of
"what you're told is capable, to seek the impossible,
"to do what every archmage before us has failed to do."
Anything is impossible.
You just have to look long enough and hard enough.
Indeed.
The things we've seen.
You don't strike me as having much of an appetite for war.
No, I have an appetite for knowledge.
(sighing)
Go back to the ocean metaphor
because it's kind of working.
Thank you.
You could also get crushed into oblivion
by several tons of weight at the bottom of the ocean
or, you know, consumed by some other scary being, like--
Uk'otoa.
Are you not--
That's still a thing?
Remotely humbled or afraid
of some of the unknowns you might find?
I am as afraid as anybody is facing into the unknown,
but that's what makes it worthwhile, is it not?
High risk, high reward.
Indeed.
But you can mitigate the risk.
That's actually an interesting
trade.
How?
How can you mitigate the risk?
Investigating your Luxon and the Beacons,
has anyone ever, I don't know, died researching it
or perhaps gazed in it too deeply, I don't know.
There have been those who have not understood
what they're capable of and reached
beyond their means too soon.
Their research was incomplete, they attempted to
bend the core elements of existence
before they were ready to do so.
And that is a lesson we all must learn from.
Maybe the lesson is that it's way too much power
for any one person to be fucking with.
This is possible.
But that's why you take care and that's why you work alone.
Only because Jester loves the details,
what happened to those people that
messed around with things sooner than they should have?
There are rumors of some that just vanished,
that either succeeded in finding some sort of
alteration to the planes of existence and never returned.
There is two tales I can think of off the top of my head
of those that wished to try and
use dunamancy to actually step
into the annals of history,
to step into the time before.
Oh.
Whoa, really?
And one of them returned--
What?
To scatter to dust.
It's possible,
but it seems to be extremely dangerous.
So, to answer your question,
there are things that are possible
but if we're careful and we take our time, who knows?
He is fucking with shit at his home by himself.
Is he?
Do I gleam, has he made this?
He killed his wife
with a time machine!
He's got some
H.G. Wells shit kicking.
Go ahead and make it, make an insight check.
Just going off of his,
"That's why you work alone."
Can I assist her in that?
Because I'm feeling that same way.
Okay,
assist, me and Fjord decide--
(talking over each other)
I'd say both you guys, if you guys are both checking,
it's both of your, this isn't a skill you necessarily
help somebody with for this particular instance.
(laughs) Eight.
Nine.
Come on.
Uh.
Oh wait.
16.
Insight, though, insight.
So, 15.
Mmkay.
(chair scraping)
Oh, whoa, whispers.
(Laura speaking with mouth full)
Oh boy, we're getting a lot of war tonight.
Guys, D&D,
D&D Beyond.
D&D.
How cool is it that Matt has a book coming out with
all this shit in it?
So cool.
He thinks of this shit and then you get to read this shit.
Our canon is canon.
Yeah.
(chair scraping)
Candidates.
Yeah, this, all that shouldn't?
Okay.
What do you mean someone came back
and then they returned to dust?
That they came back and then just poof?
This was an assisted ritual and when they returned,
they turned to dust.
Poof.
I don't know how else to describe it.
How long were they gone?
Oh, it was but a few moments.
Really?
How long ago was this?
70 years.
Whoa.
How long, were you able to talk to them
when they arrived--
Oh, I wasn't
present for this, but I heard about it.
Hmm.
Poof.
And you've heard of two instances?
Mm-hmm.
But you do not know the result of the other.
No.
Well,
just because we don't know the end of the story
does not mean it didn't go on.
This is true.
We met a guy who kind of could control time.
I was just thinking about that.
Oh yeah, we played in his festival fun house.
Yeah, his Happy Fun Ball.
Yes, Happy Fun Ball.
But even if that person was gone for just a moment,
that doesn't mean that they weren't
gone for a very long time.
True.
What was his name again?
Halas.
Halas, yeah.
Have you ever heard of him?
I have.
You have?
Was he the other guy, was he the other story?
Did you know he eats people or something?
He is so, like, really weird.
No, I just know of scattered records
from the previous age.
He dropped a demon.
It's still trapped in his Happy Fun Ball.
What is this Happy Fun Ball?
(laughter)
It's a dimension that he made or at least used
to create a space where he could experiment, draw--
How did you access this?
It's a weird little puzzle
and you shift it around just right.
Yeah, it's two turns left and two turns right--
And then all the sudden, you get sucked in
and you can't get out unless--
You have this right now?
No.
I mean, come on.
We sort of lucked into it, actually.
We are not in possession of it anymore.
There's called the, also the Archmage's--
[Trevor, Laura, & Marisha] Bane.
It was attracted to terminate magic practitioners
that wandered in.
It had a few names.
Nah, I don't feel like, I'm not going to look at my notes.
Have you heard of that?
Pretty violent.
I have not.
Is Halas the other story that you knew?
No, no.
This was all dunamantic-based, within the Dynasty.
But the thing that happened--
Didn't know if his was too, maybe.
Was time moved at a different speed
on the inside than on the outside
and apparently it could change, if I recall.
You couldn't really control it.
You could be in there for 80 years or 8 minutes.
It was more changing the rate of passage.
Mm, that Dunamis-adjacent, though I do not know
if that is specifically, or perhaps an,
a lack of a realization of what he was dabbling with.
Hey Essek?
Yes?
How come all the sudden,
you want to talk to us like we're friends?
Not that I mind because I'm really happy that you're here,
but did we do something cool or something
that you like us all the sudden?
(chuckling)
And he takes his wine, takes a big sip.
Throw me a tea cracker, cookie thing.
Oh god, they're so good.
Just Frisbee that bitch.
(throat clearing)
Would you like a Frisbee cookie?
I'm all right, thank you.
I'll Frisbee that cookie.
Do you want to toss one?
'Kay.
Toss my cookies.
(snickering)
The Dynasty, I've lived here my entire life,
and while there are benefits and there are other places
that are much more challenging to live in,
I find it frustrating at times.
I find that the obsession with this Luxon entity
belies what the truth may be, that these artifacts,
I theorize, have nothing to do with a divine being
but are just perhaps artifacts designed
in the Age of Arcanum that have been misread.
In which case, it is being misused
or at least only the surface
has been scratched of what's possible.
So,
my interests
leave me not trusting anyone,
not feeling like I, in some ways, belong.
And as such, I spend a lot of my time in solitude.
Why trust us with your interests?
(inhaling)
Because I'm thankful to have met you.
I don't have much in the way of friends,
due to the expectations placed upon me and you are driven,
you are adaptable, you're clever,
and not shackled by blind devotion
to one flawed society or another.
I think you all have what it takes
to survive in this cold, cruel world,
as it's something I pride myself on.
And,
(gentle music)
I don't know, I haven't felt a kinship with
anyone in a long time.
Is this friendship safe for you here?
Nothing I do is safe.
Fuck.
Fuck, I like him.
You can go get in the hot tub.
Uh.
And he goes and takes some of the food off the plate and,
"This is very good, Caduceus."
We appreciate the trust, it means a lot.
We move around
quite a bit ourselves.
You've been a rock for us and that's appreciated.
Should I tell him secrets?
I feel like I should
tell him secrets.
Right now, right--
We owe him some favors.
Yeah.
Hey, what, yeah, let's do that first.
What do you mean by that?
What favors?
(crunching)
I don't know.
Perhaps some of my research at some time
might require more hands than those I have at myself.
How many do you have?
Two.
Oh.
We can get hands.
We kill a lotta people on occasion.
Yeah, or we can use our own hands.
(paper rustling)
Oh, oh yeah, okay.
Yeah.
Still.
While we're asking questions,
you've asked a few questions of me,
I'll ask a few questions, and you can ask some more.
This is how conversation works, right?
Yeah.
I'm a little rusty.
Oh, wow.
Um.
It's all right.
Do you--
Yeah, I can relate.
Do you ever get lonely in your solitude?
I didn't think so until recently.
Hm.
(gentle music)
What about you?
Um,
yes.
I think, if I'm answering honestly,
I think,
but I think
I almost became
more lonely in my solitude
after I became friends with all of them
because I realized
(gentle music)
what having good friends feels like.
Hm.
(gentle music)
Oh, you're going to be so sad if we leave
because you like us so much now.
(wheezing laughter)
I'm drawing Essek.
What,
(throat clearing)
what is it that you with to accomplish, Beauregard?
I'm doing pretty good.
I'm Main Expositor now.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
So, considering (takes deep breath) I wasn't sure
if I was going to live past 19
or make it outta my hometown or amount to any
remote decent person in society,
I'm not really, I don't know if I'd say I'm a decent,
I didn't know if I was going to amount to anything, so.
I'm feeling pretty fucking great.
It feels nice sometimes to be the youngest while people
expect little of you and then to prove them wrong.
Yeah, the bar was pretty low.
Just hope you can maintain that
bar you raise to your own standards, not theirs.
(sniffing)
Yeah well, you always hold yourself
to the highest of standards first,
right?
Hm, true.
What about you, Fjord?
What do I want?
What do you want?
He's very religious.
No, I, I'm practicing faith.
(chuckling)
I'm not actually sure.
Whatever it was that I started out
thinking was important to me seems,
with time, to have faded into something else.
I've been pulled into adventures and conflicts
with this wonderful group of people and
I want to see them protected and kept.
It seems my
personal matters from before just have sort of
taken a back seat to sort of the
grander things on our stage these days.
Hm.
And you, Jester.
What is it you are seeking?
What am I seeking?
Mm-hmm.
Well, there's Traveler Con coming up, so I'm seeking--
I'm not familiar with that.
He doesn't
know what that is.
Well--
She's seeking a hotel room and--
Here's the, I mean, yeah, we have to find,
there's so many preparations we have to make.
If you make the elevator pitch.
Okay.
Kind of.
Have you heard of the Traveler?
Oh no.
I have heard of it
in the context of your arrival.
Oh.
(muffled laughter)
Well, the Traveler is a god
who, obviously, like, normally I wouldn't mention it
around people here because I don't want to get murdered
because of, you know, but that's okay
because sometimes, you know, if you're super into your god,
you're supposed to maybe get killed for them, I don't know.
I don't think the Traveler would want me
to be killed for him, though, right now.
That is not--
Anyway,
the Traveler's really cool, he wears this green cloak,
he's super powerful, he travels around, he's always with us.
He likes, you know, for you to do good things
and bad things, he likes for there to be a good balance.
If you feel like doing something funny, he's into it.
Bad things?
What?
Well, like, little bad things, not like bad things.
No, not like bad things, bad things,
but it's like--
Tricky things.
Like naughty things?
Well yeah, but like,
that's, you know, everybody shows their
devotion to the Traveler differently.
I'm sure maybe there's murderers out there or something
that can be, you know, liking the Traveler
but at the same time, if they murder people,
then maybe they have to go and make a lot of babies.
I don't know, you know, it's all about balance.
That seems--
Maybe
I'm presenting this wrong.
What I'm saying is we're having a big convention
for everybody that's super into him
and we're going to get together and that's happening
in a month.
Interesting.
They're sounding more like a cult.
It's never sounded like a cult.
It's a cult.
It's not a cult,
it's not a cult, it's not a cult.
There's like, because the thing is, here's the thing.
If it's a cult, then it's not,
you're not actually worshiping like a god or something,
you know, you're just worshiping a person
that thinks they're, like, religions
or a god or something, but this guy really is a god.
So it's a religion.
You have a point.
Well, good luck.
(laughter)
Do you want to hear more about him?
I'm fine.
I can,
I have, here, I'm going to get my brochure out.
Here, take it.
If you just want to read up sometime
or if you just, like, want to meditate with me
and talk, you know, then maybe we can discuss.
If you want to come to Traveler Con--
Some good pictures in here.
Do you want to tell him
what happens at Traveler Con, perhaps?
We're going and it's going to be
at the volcano and it's going to be super fun.
We'll probably have some big speakers,
maybe a band play, I'm not sure.
We'll probably have some, like, a party,
a dance party, maybe, like, you know?
Maybe a costume contest, I'm not sure.
Do you want to come to a volcano?
Do you want to go to a volcano?
I'm all right.
We have a ship.
(chuckling)
Jessie?
Hm?
Traveler Con I'm a hundred percent down with
and I think it's great, but going to Traveler Con is not
what you seek, is it?
Well,
no
but
well, I mean, ultimately,
you know,
I'm just trying to find,
you know, like, where I fit in in the world,
ultimately.
That is a very,
a very noble mortal cause.
Also, how many babies makes up for a murder?
You know, maybe one.
You take one, you give one, I'm not sure.
Okay, it's give a penny, take a penny, got it.
I'm not sure, you know?
I haven't actually talked to the Traveler about that
because I don't, you know, murder people on a regular basis,
but he did give me healing powers because,
you know, maybe because we're out
doing these kind of things, you know?
We fight people so maybe that's why I can heal people.
What is the worst thing you've ever done?
As far as bad things go.
Oh, well I stuck an ax in a dude's head one time.
Yeah, I watched you do it.
Yeah, that one was pretty fucked up.
But that was bad ass and totally justified.
I mean, he was going to potentially kill us.
Yeah.
Too, so.
I was just defending.
More talk tarts.
What about you, Essek?
What's the worst thing you've ever done?
(chuckles) (sighs) I would say
(gentle music)
angered my father to a point where he
went unprepared into the depths of
Bazzoxan and didn't return.
Oh, I'm sorry.
All right, that's--
What'd you do to make him so mad?
That's a lot to unpack.
And why do you think you're responsible for that?
Like, even before you tell us what you did,
why do you think you're responsible for
your dad not returning?
It's complicated.
When I say bad in the sense of what is
largely assumed to be considered a bad thing.
It doesn't bother me necessarily.
He wasn't a great man.
He had little aspirations.
Do you mind if I ask if it was
Bazzoxan near a Beacon?
Yes, and there is an opportunity that he will return.
Just wanted to check.
That's got to be odd, raising your parents.
(chuckling)
Oh, weird.
Yeah,
the more you think about it.
Doesn't everyone--
Did you say raising your parents?
Well if he comes back as a kid.
And you know he's your dad but he's also five.
Nope, not going there.
It has to have happened.
Oh, numerous times.
Not to me yet and I'm
curious to see what that would
be like when or if he returns.
When somebody dies and they're in love
with somebody else and then that person gets
really old and it's like a 200 year old person, right?
And then the other person realizes when they were, like,
15 that, that like, "Oh my God, I loved this person."
Do they marry the person when they're adolescent
or does it not transfer that sort of emotional feeling?
Like, when you're star-crossed lovers
for all time or do you, like--
Reset.
Yeah.
It, (sputters) these are not matters
I've conjectured too often, but there are individuals
that have relationships that span multiple lifetimes.
Whoa.
There are those that,
over lifetimes, feelings change,
as the heart itself, for some, does evolve and wander.
For others, it is held straight and narrow.
How long--
The 700 year itch.
(laughter)
I'm still figuring a lot of this out.
I understand, it's a lot to take in. (chuckles)
Yeah, it--
Terrible.
So, can a person still be dead for a very long time
for them to come back into another body, or does it happen
(snaps) instantly?
As far as
I understand it, it's fairly quick.
Oh.
I mean, as long as
it happens in a place where people are being born.
I think, theoretically, if a Luxon
were to be in the presence of, let's say, theoretically,
thousands of deaths and yet, no children are born,
they would just be waiting.
But then with each progressive birth
within the radius of the Luxon,
those souls would then be transferred with each new child.
So, if one of the Beacons got
stolen with a bunch of souls,
or does it--
Yeah.
But, it would just let out
the souls as it traveled, right?
But only to those that have been consecuted.
Well, the souls that've been captured are the ones
that are consecuted.
Oh, right.
If you were to travel with the Beacon, in theory,
then they would disperse as children
were born within that radius.
Whoa.
Like a fog bomb.
Yeah.
Overreaching.
Do the other Beacons
share a pocket universe, are they all connected?
Or are you, you jettison into
a specific Beacon and then that--
Or is that part of your research?
That is part of what I'm curious about,
but such Beacons are heavily guarded
and are assigned to certain individuals,
for the interests of the religion, to keep.
Is there any knowledge of the
in between, any recollection?
None that have been recorded.
Whoa.
Just off in the--
(sniffing)
How often are you able to interact with a Beacon?
Like, you, Beacon, study hall.
Not often.
There is a lot of importance in having them
specifically located and kept safe within approved areas
of Xhorhas to ensure that the masses of the population
are usually within the radius of one.
Have you ever stared at one for about a minute?
If you're referring as to whether or not I have
attuned with it for a moment, numerous times, yes.
Of course.
I'll trade you a secret if it
crosses off one of those favors.
(paper rustling)
It better be one heck of a secret.
Done some research on the Luxons.
Beacons, the Luxons, are those things--
The Luxon Beacons.
The Luxon,
I've done some research on the
Luxon Beaxons.
Beacons.
(laughter)
Luxon Beaxons, Luxon Beaxons.
You sound very knowledgeable about them, so this'll be--
We've had, like, two bottles of wine, okay?
(laughter)
With tossing, tossing maple cookies.
They're really good.
They are very good.
Sweet.
(paper rustling)
The Empire found another one.
They uncovered it in the archeological
dig site of Pride's Call, where they found
a lot of arcane weapons
from the
pre-calamity stuff.
(snorting)
(laughter)
Secret secrets.
Checks out.
(paper rustling)
No, that's my notes.
Over 1.5.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, yeah.
From the Age of Arcanum, right?
That's what I was looking for.
I ask you this: what are your
opinions on war, on this conflict?
What is it good for?
Nothing, that's what.
Huh.
Say it again.
(wheezing laughter)
That was so fast.
It was.
It was traveled.
Wow.
(laughter)
I mean, that, basically, that's our stance, right?
(laughs) Yeah.
If you truly intend on maintaining this peace,
of seeing this negotiation through
and find that this conflict gives
no benefit to you and your interests,
it would do well to not let that
information find its way to the Bright Queen.
Don't tell her about that?
You don't want to tell her about that?
Why? Why?
I think
it might tip the scales.
Because then there would be
no reason to stop the conflict if they're not
giving all the Beacons back.
It's largely considered within the Dynasty
that these are the religious right of those
that follow the Luxon to find and maintain the Beacons.
And you care more about stopping
this war than serving your Queen?
The Dynasty is where I live.
The Dynasty has many great things it does and provides.
I don't necessarily believe with this theological focus
to the point where it continues
the cycle of warfare and bloodshed.
War is a cycle and an addiction.
Of course.
I've seen it happen many times
and it will continue to happen.
Little to do with its people.
Well.
We're not being watched, right?
We don't have a little floating ball--
Yeah, have we been watched since we've been here?
Whirr, shum, whirr.
(laughter)
Make a reception check.
Oh.
Son of a bitch.
If we've been watched, this is bad--
Of course we're being watched.
Natural one.
Oh, shoot.
Mmkay.
See, we're fine.
You do glance around and you see
nothing of the sort in the vicinity.
Does the Dynasty have us bugged in this house?
It would not surprise me if they, at times, chimed in.
You have been under watch, here and there,
since you've arrived as you were a,
a challenging addition to the proximity.
Were you one of the ones watching us?
Did you ever watch us?
To be specific,
we've seen ourselves being watched.
We were hoping it was you.
At times it was.
Hey.
(gasps) Oh my gosh.
Did you see us when we were changing clothes?
Were you watching us when we were naked?
Jester's naked a lot.
(laughter)
No, but it was part of my assignment when you
first came under my wing to ensure that there wasn't
any chances of undue Empire business
finding its way within the proximity of the Bastion.
Makes sense.
If you chimed in
when we were changing, would you have kept watching
or would you have checked out?
I am more respectful than that
and have no interest in such things.
Why?
Is there one of us
that you would've watched longer than--
(snorting)
Wow.
Wait, okay.
Real question.
And which one?
You can be open here.
So.
(laughter)
How much has he had to drink?
(clapping)
This additional Beacon, where is it now?
We don't know.
We'll tell
if you tell us which one of us is the hottest.
Zone of truth. (laughs)
(laughter)
Oh my gosh, you guys.
Do you want to play seven minutes in the zone of truth?
(laughter)
(imitated buffeting noise)
Seven minutes in--
Epic fantasy,
heroic personalities, fighting against the dangers
of the world to rise the ranks of power and glory to--
Who do you like?
Find out
who wants to make out with somebody else.
This is Dungeons & Dragons.
(laughter)
Don't kid yourselves, I'd win.
I think that's why we're, though.
(laughter)
Yeah, we don't, we don't know where it is.
We've just--
Well, we know where it came from.
I can tell you it's the one they plan to give back,
which I find deeply problematic and have since they
poised that plan because I'm assuming as soon as
the Bright Queen takes one look at it--
Yeah, it's not like a dead goldfish
where you can just, like, swap out another one
and be like, "Here's your goldfish."
Like, she'll know that it's not the same goldfish.
Will she?
Well, it depends.
If they're handing over this new one they've found
or if they're returning the one that was taken
and then planned to keep this new one for themselves.
I mean, there's no way to really know which one is which.
What you're saying, though, is any one of them,
even this one that has been found,
dug up within the Empire's reaches,
would be considered the property of the Dynasty.
By their divine right to own these artifacts that
extend their ability to maintain the cycle of life, yes.
What if these things are all over the world?
I believe they are.
That is the assumption.
And you're telling us you would
prefer to keep this a secret in this room?
I am advising, based on your proclivity
to not continue this conflict
and the lengths at which you've gone
to prevent this war from spreading further and further,
putting yourselves in harm's way to do so,
that if that is what you continually wish to do,
to not notify the Bright Queen
or any other members of the council around her of this.
Would it be advisable
for us to urge--
The Empire to give back--
The Empire to give back
either the correct one or honestly, both?
Or steal it back.
I don't think that would accomplish what we're,
that would just be us plundering them,
they would have no reason to stop.
It's really shiny, though.
Well,
is it in the hands of
the Empire--
Cerberus Assembly.
Yes.
Of the Assembly?
At the top.
That both makes sense
and confirms that you should not
attempt to take it from them.
That's what I thought.
Plus, if we take it from them,
they're just going to blame it on the Kryn.
Start the war more.
You know about these things.
What could they do with it to abuse its powers?
Well, they have some powerful minds in the Assembly.
(liquid sloshing)
Or if they are somewhat dubious,
so does anyone of true intelligence and capability.
(chuckling)
If your necessary choices are moral choices and
in my experience, I'd trust
they would have similar interests
of seeing what it's capable of.
Perhaps they can be reasoned with and perhaps,
I will think on this.
I don't know if, I'm not sure if the Empire
even knows that they're giving the wrong one.
I don't think they talk to each other enough.
I think there may be secrets within secrets.
Oh, there's definitely secrets within secrets.
It's just a matter of who knows--
Just like here.
Too many people not lying,
too many people telling the truth,
then all the truths conflict.
Do you have--
Someone will know.
A relationship with the Assembly?
(groaning)
Some of them.
Somewhat.
Our sense is,
and I'm sure that you all have guessed this yourselves,
but the Assembly has its plans separate from the King.
I would assume.
Hm.
Well, if they have it,
at this moment, I cannot see a path to its retrieval
nor any true benefit in attempting
to blow things up, if you will.
Man, I am so glad I talked to you about this first.
That woulda been super bad if
you'd have just brought that up, woof.
Yup.
I'm really proud of you,
actually, that was really good.
That was another, that was a good move.
There has to be something about this new Beacon, right?
There has to be a reason why they are even offering it up.
It has to be different from the first one.
As long as we have been so
forthright with you already, we
are very skeptical of the intentions
of the Assembly in this meeting.
We are expecting fuckery.
As you should.
As you should?
We would like to pull the rug out from under them.
Not to topple the Empire but
maybe to clear the rot a bit from our nation.
And you believe that the individuals
that make the laws and employ them across your empire
are more capable than these mages?
Do you not think there is perhaps a necessary balance
between the two that maintains the order?
No.
It's the dance
the Cobalt Soul and the Cerberus Assembly have been in
for hundreds of years now at this point.
Understand, the Assembly,
and individuals of which I have no sum of,
seem to be dangerous and calculating,
but anyone of such extended study and pursuits,
I can understand far better and see eye to eye with
than I can a power hungry monarch
who came into their seat through bloodline.
I get the sense that they feel they have found
the upper hand somehow.
Well.
I want to see the conflict end
and I do not get that sense from them.
(gentle music)
What is the biggest danger to
secret research?
(gentle music)
People finding out what you're researching
or what you're--
Discovery.
What better way to avoid discovery
than to find a way to stop a conflict
that pries into what you're doing?
Mm-hmm.
He's got a point.
You are suggesting that they want to
keep their extra.
It could be.
Or they intend to trap whatever it is they're delivering
and gain an upper hand.
Or something else.
I'm but one mind, they are many.
It's likely something else.
We know they can extract things from the Beacons.
Yeah.
Like energy or liquid or something.
Yeah, they made potions out of it.
Really.
And where did you see this?
When we found the, when we were in the Empire, we saw it.
We found a place that they had been doing
some of their research and there was, like,
potions there.
Hm.
Well.
(gentle music)
If you have any means of discovering
more of such experiments that they're
doing in their private chambers,
that would be of definite interest to me.
What if they're willing to give it back
because it's not the one that they found that was empty?
Because Nott looked at it and she got a signal.
What if they drained the other one that they stole?
That would be an astronomical feat based on
the sheer volume of power within each of these Beacons.
That buried one was just sitting there, not absorbing.
Maybe it was absorbing.
The potential lives in a beacon,
thousands, hundreds,
millions?
It would have to depend on who was
consecuted and passed in its presence.
I have no idea.
What does the ritual entail?
They cut the foreskin off?
Mm.
You are guided by an Umavi through a soul binding process.
It is extensive, it entails a bunch of spoken rites.
It is usually observed by many individuals
of various dens, especially if you belong to one.
And often when you are consecuted,
you are given a path to a den.
Oh.
The families are expensive.
I got a question.
Mm-hmm?
In my research, would I have found anything
about Pride's Call that talks about them
having some form of reincarnation
as part of their culture or city--
Pride's Call?
With the dwarven society.
Yeah.
Nothing like that, actually.
Nothing that sounds like--
Mm-mm.
Okay.
Repackaging--
Hypothetically, if we had one of these potions
that they had derived from the Beacon,
what would you do with it?
I would study it, top to bottom.
What could it tell you?
I have no idea.
That would be the purpose of researching it.
Why, do you have one such thing?
I mean--
Let's call this one favor--
Whoa.
Taken care of.
You fucking drop a thing on the
Dynasty every time.
That
would be a favor accepted.
Oh,
he didn't accept your secret.
Do you release it?
Mm.
Wow.
Secrets are very valuable.
We're giving them up like candy here.
All you got to do is be nice to us.
We don't have enough people being nice to us.
I have plenty of people being
nice to me.
She's got a point
And the SWAT team bursts in through the windows
(chuckling)
Fuck!
He just sets it aside on the table.
(laughter)
I can commiserate with that.
Honestly, part of the reason I accepted your invitation
was after thinking and realizing that
perhaps it's been awhile since
somebody's extended such niceties to myself.
There are (sighs) elements to a solitary life
that sometimes can be more challenging
once you have a basis of comparison.
The whole returning a favor thing
is kind of a bit in jest.
In all honesty, we do deeply appreciate
all the things that you've done for us
over these past several months.
Yeah, if you ever feel like ditching out here
and traveling with us, just let us know, you know?
(chuckling)
Yeah, well no, she's not joking.
I mean, you know, you said, you said an important part
of what you do is staying alone and I think
we all felt that too before we met each other.
It's true.
Literally.
Very lonely, all of us.
Well,
if I can be of help in some way,
perhaps with your predicament as you were requesting--
Well, I--
Let me know.
There was a woman, a mage,
who helped them turn me into this.
I don't really know anything about her, though.
What was her name?
I don't know.
What'd she look like?
A lady.
Like, what color was her hair?
I don't know, I was, like, mostly dead when I saw her.
You, Caleb--
Was she ugly?
Was she pretty?
I mean,
not as pretty as you, but she was pretty.
Your specialty in the arcane
lies in the realm of transmutation, yes?
Primarily.
Although, I, similar to you, I'm an avid reader.
I'm very curious about everything, everything.
He's been studying something to help me lately.
Working on equations.
Yeah.
I've been noodling about with something.
Perhaps I can offer some aid.
Then we would be willing to accept that.
I think we have a full plate for the next couple of days,
but hopefully it will be wrapped up safely.
You just show him now, you just show him now.
Well, he's a little drunk.
He might not be able to--
Oh, right.
Maybe we could get into the hot tub
and sorta look through the pages.
That makes the drunk worse.
Does it?
Yes.
Getting in the hot tub?
Then let's do it!
I'm game.
Come get in the hot tub.
You seriously
have a hot tub?
We really, really do.
I mean, do you want to see it?
Yeah.
It's very nice.
It is really great, you will like it.
Like a bricked-in hole in the ground
that we heated with our magic
It's--
Or with fire.
I'm certainly curious.
(claps) He's doing it.
He's doing it.
Let's do it.
We've worked very hard on that hot tub.
You're right, I'm sorry--
It's very nice.
I'm not trying to minimize it.
Don't minimize it.
It's spectacular.
I'm not.
It's a great hot tub.
Yeah.
And it's got a good view, you see up into the trees.
The tree roots, like, the way that they've
been expertly carved--
It's true, beautiful.
Do you want to borrow some knickers or something?
You want to go naked?
I just wanted to see it.
Oh.
You want to get in.
(laughter)
Make a persuasion check.
Do it.
Peer pressure.
15.
A small dip, maybe.
Ooh.
Like, put your feet in.
He's a feet dangler, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sold him.
Pulls the pants up, tucks them right above the knees.
So, he takes his boots off and rolls up the legs
just beyond the knee and does
place his feet into the water.
How's his feet look?
Are they, like, super delicate
from where he just, like, floats all the time?
Like, are they atrophied from not--
(talking over each other)
(laughter)
It's like easily--
How detailed are your notes?
They are very, very well kept, soft feet
from a man who takes care of himself
in the nobility, sure, there you go.
Well manicured.
(laughter)
You can see a glass slipper just fitting right on.
(talking over each other)
(laughter)
(laughs) Writing it in your notes.
Jesus, you guys.
Underneath his floating robes, he just has glass slippers.
(laughter)
Just floating.
That's why he does, that's why he floats,
doesn't want to break them.
I need some alcohol in this.
(laughter)
Hyperbaric fun chamber.
Something occurred to me when you were
talking about lives and reborn and stuff like that.
In your den or when you were growing up,
wait, how many people live here in Xhorhas?
Like, thousands, right?
In Xhorhas,
between the Dynasty's influence in particular,
hm, somewhere between, in the neighborhood of 300,000.
Whoa.
Within the Dynasty.
That involves multiple cities, probably more than that.
There are many of those who exist
outside of the Dynasty's purview.
I just thought maybe you might
have heard of a friend of ours, maybe.
Have you ever heard of someone named Lucien or Nonagon?
I cannot say I have.
Hm.
My apologies.
All right.
Worth a shot.
Yeah, there was this story he told me.
What?
It was right before he died.
There was this story he told me
about how he convinced some town he was a god.
Mollytown.
Somewhere.
Yeah, somewhere out there.
Molly has a cult.
Huh?
Somewhere out there, there is a town
that thinks Molly is the shit.
Why did they think that about him?
Do you know more about this story?
I vaguely remember it and I feel like
it always made me laugh.
Yeah, it was actually a good story.
We're all in the hot tub by now, right?
Yeah.
You've all lined in front of the hot tub
and he just has his feet over the edge.
Yeah, I think that, uh--
(chuckling)
Nott's in a hoodie on the bench.
I'm just making notes on improvement for the hot tub.
I've got plans for this thing.
It's going to be great.
Wonder if
we strung up lights from the roots--
That's what I was thinking.
(talking over each other)
Plus I'm going to try and get some
that smells really good, so you'll have always have--
Caleb sends the globules of light
to sort of hover around in the roots
Can you make them change colors?
Can you make them rotate through the color spectrum?
Oh Jesus Christ.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Do it.
(clunking)
(laughter)
Did you just go (stomps)?
Yeah.
Yeah. (laughs)
(laughter)
Send forth the disco.
Does it work?
They're amber.
Do they work?
Yeah, they do.
(cheering)
Moody.
It's
simple enough to do with a cantrip.
Hey, Caduceus?
Yeah?
While we're getting real and shit,
why have you never wanted to scry on any of your siblings?
(tankard clanking)
You've been separated from them.
They went off looking for these things.
Why not check in?
As the token sober person in this group.
I'm also sober.
Are you also sober?
Yeah.
Have I
not noticed that you haven't been drinking?
I don't drink.
She just drinks milk.
It's that low perception, yeah.
Token sober person who's just really not been
paying attention to what you've been drinking.
It's okay, I always seem slightly drunk anyway, I think.
It's part of your charm.
I don't know, it's either,
if you had asked me that a month ago,
I would've said, "Because I don't need to."
Why?
Because I'm on this path, it's the right path, and--
But we're asking you now.
I think I'm on this path
and I do think it's the right path.
Maybe I'm afraid.
Afraid something happened to them?
Afraid that if something did
happen to them, what would it mean?
I,
I don't want to open the envelope, so to say,
before it's time and be hurt before I'm there.
I'd rather trust
and try to
process the fear.
Fear is kind of new.
For the record, I'm,
my home is dying,
slowly, up north.
Sorry to hear that.
I have been on a
quest, sent by my goddess to
fix my home, to bring it back to life, to replenish it.
My family, all my family,
already begun this quest without me and
I do not know if they are alive or dead,
but this is the quest and I was given these people
and I have
done my best to
support them as they have blossomed into heroes.
And I thought I was going to save my home
and regain my family and that would be my reward
and now I'm, (sighs)
this world has changed me, I don't know anymore.
I don't know what is going to happen,
not because I think that
I've been lied to or been given the,
I don't necessarily believe that I understand
what it is I've been asked to do yet
and I don't understand what it is I want anymore.
And that has shaken me,
but this is a very big world.
(chuckles) Ah, it's been a lot.
It's been nice to be useful.
(throat clearing)
It's good to be useful.
These are good people, despite themselves.
(chuckling)
Faith is a strange thing.
It is.
That's why I find no use for it.
I understand.
But
I hope you find what it is you're looking for.
Thank you, I'll find something, at the very least,
and whatever it is will be,
in the end, what I was looking for.
If there is any way I can be helpful,
you know how to contact me.
He looks knowingly at Jester.
(chuckling)
(laughs) Have you ever been doing something
that you were really embarrassed about
when I was talking to you?
(giggling)
Not particularly.
(chuckling)
(laughs) Insight check.
(laughter)
(clapping)
Make an insight check.
(laughter)
Ya pooping?
(talking over each other)
Ah.
Okay, okay,
okay, okay.
Uh huh, uh huh.
Insight?
Yes.
18.
(laughter)
(clapping)
This whisper is going to be, "He was pooping."
Oh, guys.
(talking over each other)
(laughter)
You guys, D&D Beyond will feature
a lot of the stuff that's coming up
in the Wildemount Explorer's Guide.
Did you, okay.
Anyway.
The evening draws late.
I should probably return to my home.
Thank you--
You could
spend the night here.
I live not far from here.
How come we never seen your house?
Well, perhaps--
Next time?
Perhaps if you wanted to discuss
this equation you're working on--
Yes, what's your address?
I'll show it to you.
Easier to show than to describe, really.
Sure.
Let me know when
and I'll come show you to my place.
Okay.
But.
He pulls his legs outta the water.
(clears throat)
Are they shriveled?
Hee hee hee hee.
In the natural way a foot would be after spending,
you know, 30 minutes in a hot tub, sure.
A natural feet.
(laughter)
I accidentally, like, brush up against one
to see if it's an illusion.
(chuckling)
No, it's a foot.
(laughter)
Oh, sorry, sorry.
Brush up against it.
(laughter)
You guys are so weird.
Sorry.
(laughter)
I thought that was a piece of soap,
I was picking it up and didn't want ya to slip on it.
I feel like you're over apologizing.
(laughter)
It's fine.
Anyway, he goes and goes ahead and replaces his mantle
and returns to the front door and says,
"This was nice.
"Thank you."
Thank you!
That was really fun.
Could you,
could we walk, could you show me
where you live so we know where to go?
Sure, come with.
Yeah.
I'm coming, too.
All right.
I'm going to stay here.
Yeah, let them go.
Watch from the window.
It's too weird.
He leads you outside and as he steps off
of the threshold of the front door,
you watch him lift back up into his
general hovering persona, shoulders held aloft.
He guides you through the neighborhood,,
the path you would take to the Bastion
that curves into the neighborhood to where your house is,
it's past that circle and then it leads
deeper into an area that would be
the equivalent of a Rosohna gated community, I guess.
There are guards there, there are folks that are,
you know, guarding an estate and there is,
it's, as opposed to a singular,
you're used to like the candles,
this large, elaborate, you know, wizard towers.
His estate is three towers that are shorter,
but they're all connected by walkways
and they're different heights.
Ooh.
And atop the--
He's got a fun house.
Atop of the tallest one, you can see there
what looks at first like a weather vane.
Instead, you can see is a contraption
that seems to have a series of metallic rings inside
that all are smaller and smaller and smaller within
that slowly, like, rotate on its own
in a way that you're not understand its purpose
or really what it does but it's unique
and it's engineered to be
strangely pretty.
You can see the brick exterior of it falls,
it looks gray, but what little bit of light there is
as you walk past, you can see now the,
there's a slight iridescent almost quality
to the exterior of the bricks
that are laid at the base of the towers.
He just points to it and goes,
"This is where you can find me most of the time--
This is--
Ever.
Fascinating, is this to do with
the turning of the heavens or--
This has to do more with the adjusting of the,
how do I put it,
there are almost ley lines of energy
that themselves span like a net across all of Exandria
and these ley lines sometimes shift and swell
and expand and reduce based on the seasons,
based on the time of year, based on
celestial gatherings and alignments.
This is part of a device that just
keeps track of it.
Mirrors it.
(inhales) Well, now we know where you live.
I would like to take you up on your offer
to examine that thing that Nott and I are working on.
I have a number of things, including some souvenirs
from inside the Happy Fun Ball we told you about.
I'm very curious about that.
So am I and I think
you and I share interests.
I understand the pressure
being young and the expectation.
I am not 120 years old but I feel like
I understand a little bit.
I have seen those far older than you that have
experienced maybe half the pain I see in your eyes.
Age isn't everything.
Experience is what hardens you, prepares you for the worst.
I think you're prepared for more than
you give yourself credit for, Caleb.
Well, we'll come back later and compare notes.
I'll be here.
Perhaps I can provide breakfast as a thank you.
(clanking)
Dope.
I'm just thinking about mimosas from your house, right?
(laughter)
Oh.
Have that green jam.
Uh huh, it's really good.
Well, good night.
Glad you got home safe.
Thank you for the escort.
Yep.
(whooshing)
(laughter)
And he just drifts off to, the gate opens on its own
(creaking)
and he heads up to the interior.
How weird that that's the thing
you just get stuck with, like, floating.
Like people who put on an accent for
half of a year and then, and then
how are you going to get yourself out of it?
Or a name or--
Yeah.
Burning things.
Mm-hmm.
Basically, like, half of our crew probably has
something like that, but his is floating
and he's just committed to floating.
(laughter)
Commit to the bit, Beauregard.
But like, why?
Does he feel, like, is he, he's going to have shame?
Does he feel ashamed if he doesn't float?
It's just so fascinating.
It's one of many things that are fascinating
about him, yeah.
Yeah.
But at least we know there are feet under there
and a full, full adult-sized body, not a tiny baby.
(laughter)
So stupid.
Let's go back.
All right.
You guys return to the Xhorhaus, it is late in the evening.
Many of you are enjoying the tale end
of a wine buzz after dinner and spending time
in the hot tub.
Yeah.
Unless you have any other business
to attend to this night--
No, but seriously, what am I doing wrong, you guys?
What do you mean?
About what?
Well, like, I feel like I do a really bad job of,
you know, recruiting other people to--
It's a tough sell!
Why, though?
Why is it a tough sell?
Well, I mean, (sighs) what does he,
so, what does he do for you?
He gives me really cool powers and he's a good companion
and he loves me.
So, you didn't mention that.
You didn't mention that to Essek.
You didn't say that he gives you cool powers.
You just said that he appears and he's always around
and he makes you do good stuff and bad stuff.
Oh.
Basically like a mom.
You listed some pros and cons and in the con column,
you mentioned people might get murdered and that was okay.
And the pro column was maybe they have to make babies.
But some people like making babies
Sure, sure, who doesn't like making babies?
But still, I mean, maybe next time lead with,
"I have sight beyond sight now because of him."
Do you?
Oh, that's good.
Well, I mean, yeah, I can see, scry on people.
Yeah, maybe pick, like, three bullet points--
I should've, like, done the thaumaturgy thing
and made something look really cool.
Wait, what's in your, I don't think
I've ever read your pamphlet.
What do you have in your pam, what,
read us the bullet points.
Oh no.
(talking over each other)
It's not great.
You don't want it.
Yeah, we know that--
Does it talk about murdering
things in the pamphlet?
No, she ad-libbed that.
Most of it says stuff about how cool he is.
He's really cool.
He is cool!
No, I know, but that's not a very--
Is there pictures of him or anything?
Yeah, drawings, I made drawings.
She did the drawings--
Oh wait, you made this,
you made this brochure?
There's three drawings
of his cloak.
I understand, okay.
I mean, she's really proud of the cloak.
It's a really cool cloak!
I know.
I mean, I haven't seen what he
looks like outside the cloak--
It's like all I see is a cloak.
New candidate for the Traveler, it's me.
Sell me three things about the Trav--
I tried to sell you on the Traveler and you went wild--
I'm not Fjord, I'm not Fjord, I'm Jeff.
Tell Jeff what it is about the Traveler in three points.
And Jeff just had a traumatic experience.
He's open, he's available.
Okay, okay, okay,
okay, okay, okay.
I'm seeking
change and direction.
Is your real name Jeff?
Yes, it's Jeff.
Okay.
J, J.
Yeah, Jeff with a J.
Yes, I understand,
you're feeling lost right now.
You know what could really help you?
The Traveler.
Who's the Traveler
and what does he do?
Guidance.
Well,
he's a really cool guy.
Okay, I like cool guys.
What else, what else should I know about the Traveler?
He saved my life.
A pearl lowers in front of Jester's forehead
and little geometric shapes come out.
(wheezing)
More guidance.
He,
he gave, he, at one time I was alone and lost in the world
and the Traveler came to me and he made me feel better
and he gave me some really cool powers and he made me
feel special like he can make you feel special.
He gave you cool powers?
Yeah, like,
like I, well, spirit guardians. (snaps)
And there's good fat little unicorns flying around now.
Are they friendly?
Yeah, they love everyone
except, unless you're, you know,
going to harm me and then they'll kill you.
I don't want to harm you.
I know.
That's, and the Traveler doesn't want
you harming you, he keeps you safe.
I've heard two--
Keeps you safe.
Two great things about the Traveler.
If only I had one more.
(wheezing)
(laughter)
Um.
Speak from your heart, Jester.
He--
What were you lacking before that he filled?
Well, I was really lonely and,
you know, he's a really good friend and
he just accepts you for who you are
and he likes all the things that are good about you
and he makes them stronger.
Jeff is sold.
Really?
That's great.
Jeff needs a friend, Jeff needs someone
who takes him as he is, Jeff is down.
Jeff, do you want to go to Traveler Con?
We're have a con in a volcano coming up soon.
What? No.
(laughter)
(clapping)
Jester, that was great.
Maybe leave out the volcano.
But it's an important part.
Tropical location.
Yeah.
(laughter)
Some people might be--
But that's lying--
No it's not.
It's a tropical location.
It is?
Yeah, we don't know if it's an active or dormant volcano
but when you say volcano, people go, "Active volcano."
Well, some people might think that's cool
because they've never seen a volcano.
Right?
I've never, well I have seen a volcano because we went
to a volcano.
We did.
Also, traveling is expensive.
Maybe they're just price gated out of the experience.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jeff has never left home
and has trouble traveling over open water, so, you know.
Jeff has a very imaginative back story.
Jeff, where are you from?
(chuckling)
We don't need to know.
(laughter)
Pride's Call, I'm an archeology student.
Oh shit, he's responsible for the Beacon.
Kill him, kill him, flay his flesh!
(laughter)
Jester, I think that's great.
Yeah.
Okay.
If Jeff were really, you'd be getting somewhere.
Focus on the positive, you can't lose.
Okay, okay, okay.
Maybe leave out
the murdering people.
Okay.
Is this what he looks like, though,
and that you have in the picture?
Well, yeah.
Yeah, he is, like, sometimes he's big,
sometimes he's little, sometimes he's,
you know, just, like, the perfect size.
Very, so he looks very handsome.
Well, you can't really, that's how I imagine he looks
because I haven't actually seen like his face's face.
You just see, like--
But sometimes when he turns
and, like, his cloak moves,
I see, like, this, like silhouette
and I can see that it's, like,
really good looking.
Ooh.
He's very handsome.
He's handsome.
(gentle music)
Caduceus, I was moved by what you said earlier
about your family and your quest.
I want to help you with that.
Yeah, same.
I don't know if I quite understood the urgency before
about your home and it dying and you need to reinstate,
the needing to reinstate that--
How do you grow your home again?
Well--
What does that mean?
I don't know entirely but I think this has something
to do with it.
Whoa.
And I pull out the--
The purple crystal.
Crystal.
You see the,
and you guys, mostly they were present
for when you placed the residuum shards
into the forge in the volcano.
The purple crystals that grew from them
and they're not solid, smooth, chiseled crystals,
they're naturally grown,
almost rock candy-looking purple crystals
that have expanded off of the residuum glass
into these larger shards that are about that long each.
And he has a handful of them in his hand.
Have you tried licking them?
Surprisingly not, no.
Maybe you should lick it.
Are you supposed to plant it?
Do you want to lick it?
We could ask, okay.
What do you think?
It's salty.
What does it taste like?
Like a rock?
Like a mineral.
Like, is it salty?
Like a salty mineral.
It's salty.
And what is that
and what is its purpose exactly?
I'm sure you've told us again,
I just never listen to anything.
(laughter)
I don't entirely know.
It came out of the forge.
I think that I have to go
to this,
this garden, the Menagerie, and
find some way of taking something
from it to bring back to my garden.
So is it like a seed?
Hopefully.
Interesting.
Do that.
Yeah, let's do that on the way.
Why didn't you tell us sooner?
I mean--
You kind of did.
I did.
You did, but you didn't,
every time we brought it up, you were like,
"Yeah, it can wait."
Can I see?
Selfless to a fault, maybe?
Maybe.
Perhaps fear.
Perhaps I
am afraid of what I'll find.
I don't know but I knew I was heading that way
and I knew that I would get there,
so I was letting the urgency of what had to be done
be important that take precedent,
I guess, and I'm glad I did.
We needed to do what was done
and I would've hated to have gotten in the way of that, but
the next step is to go and to the next sacred site
and hopefully find my family,
hopefully find some or at least some sign
that they have been there and
find the next thing I'm supposed to do.
Fuck yes.
I've been in this hot tub too long
and my core body temperature is rising.
I'm in, let's do this.
I feel real fucking dizzy.
Oh.
Sit, oh no.
No, give me another drink.
No, no, no.
Listen.
Listen, listen, listen.
Tomorrow we go, we get your armor, and then we go f--
There he goes.
Oh no.
(talking over each other)
(laughter)
Yasha, help me get him out of the water now.
So heavy even though he's so little.
(laughter)
He's not, he's gotten bigger.
He's heavier than he used to be.
Family, the Family of Stone.
You shall take the limbs of this hero
and walk the plains until you find an oasis,
the mouth of a red and gold veined cave.
There upon my altar, you shall feed these limbs
to the beasts that walk there so that they may hold my mark
and to this site, you shall build a menagerie
whose beasts shall be my gift to the change bringer
to remind her that nature is infinite.
Do you get all that?
No, I,
I got that.
The Family of Stone?
Family of Stone.
Dust, Clay, and Stone, three families.
What, do you know something, what?
Ah,
yeah, I mean, yes, no, (scoffs) I find it ironic.
What?
When you're at an orphanage, they give you a,
they give you a shit last name.
Mine was Stone.
(laughter)
I never used it because it's not,
it's not my name, it was just given to me--
Insight check.
Make an insight check.
That was terrible, 15.
It's the truth.
Wow.
They gave you
the name Stone?
Yes, but orphans can have
any kind of bland, ordinary last name.
But you got Stone.
Yes.
It's very strange, I think it's totally--
Family of the Wildmother.
That you now follow.
What a tough name.
Wow.
Fjord Stone, wow.
(incoherent muttering)
(groaning)
I'm not a believer in coincidences.
Even when they happen--
(laughter)
Wee-oo wee-oo wee-oo.
(grunting)
(laughter)
It wouldn't be the first one in this group.
No.
Family of Stone, though.
That's one of the three families.
Wow.
I've never met any of them.
Now you have, you have.
Either way, either way,
I'm very interested to go.
I'm somehow even more interested than I was a minute ago.
Maybe there'll be something else for you here
and you certainly found something at the last--
Oh wow.
This is exciting.
I always wondered what my, who my parents were
and what my real name might be.
I never cared for that name, so--
Well.
I just find it--
I will say as part of what I do
and part of what we do at the garden,
names have a funny way of
sneaking up on you and we definitely,
the people that we put into our garden,
their names are, their names have quite the effect, so.
Yeah, look at that, all the way back around.
(chuckling)
I need ice water, I'm going to burn.
Yeah, you look a little green.
Like a really pale green.
That's like a minty green.
It's just my pigment, thank you.
No, no, no.
No, this is--
Definitely lighter than--
It is a different color.
(chuckling)
Uh, work out in the morning, so.
What?
Yep.
That should've been disclosed--
I'll knock on your door.
Pre-hot--
(laughter)
We'll go to sleep.
All right, you guys all
scatter to your respective rooms in the Xhorhaus
and post-dinner, post-hot tub--
Oh yeah, pass out so hard.
Enjoy an evening of rest in a home
that you can call, ah, except for?
Just a quick thing, she's wandering the halls.
Hey, Jester.
Me?
I thought you were looking for Nott.
Sorry, I didn't mean to startle you.
No--
No, it's okay,
I was just thinking.
I'll leave.
Good night, but,
you look like you're knocking yourself a little bit
and I don't think you should.
Do you know what I think about
the Traveler?
What?
I think that he is lucky to have you.
I'm the transmutation wizard, but
you're the one who changes people.
See it every day.
Really?
Yeah.
You're a good friend and you move people.
I don't know if you see that, but you do, every day.
Thank you.
No, thank you.
Can I tell you something?
Yeah.
(clears throat) Earlier, we were in the park
and I was trying to talk to the Traveler,
I even bought him some ice cream, and he didn't come.
And, to be honest, it's one of the
first times that I didn't feel him
near me
and I wonder maybe I'm not doing a very good job of,
you know, being a cleric to him or whatever.
You're trying to bring more people into the fold.
Well, see, that's the thing.
When I set out, when I left Mama, I didn't,
I didn't leave with the goal of recruiting
a bunch of people to,
to this religion, you know?
I just, I had this good friend
that saw me through my life and (sighs)
I don't know what I'm supposed to do.
(gentle music)
Well, maybe Traveler Con will--
Yeah.
Help with that.
Yeah, maybe it will.
I don't know anything about faith.
I am learning from you and the others in the group.
But it seems
inexplicable.
Yeah.
Otherwise it wouldn't be faith.
Well if you ever want to worship the Traveler,
you know, you can just, he's really cool.
(giggling)
Well, everybody kind of made sport in there,
but we are all low key acolytes of the Traveler,
you realize that, don't you?
Yeah?
I mean, we're with you.
You see his power every day.
Every day.
I believe, I have no choice.
Sometimes I wonder if maybe he doesn't come around as much
because he sees, you know, that I have some friends now
and he doesn't need to be here as much.
That seems like a good theory.
Also, Traveler Con is coming, so maybe preparations
are underway on a cosmic level of some sort.
Yeah, yeah, that's true.
You know, I think we should go to bed,
but I want to show you something that I've been working on.
I don't know what you have planned for Traveler Con,
but if I can help in any way with something like this.
And little lollipops
and hamster unicorns that are amber-colored
start floating around us as I cast
Major Image?
Mm-hmm.
In an approximation but it's
a more Widogast amber flavor.
I just figured this out a couple of weeks ago,
so I don't know if you need effects or--
Oh my gosh.
Decorations.
That's a step and repeat.
I mean, it's beautiful.
Lollipops are just rotating.
If I, if I did,
like a performance or something, you know,
like maybe if we play our musical instruments
and, like, you can have this, you know, like,
around us, it'll be, like, this amazing thing.
Yes.
I don't know, I'm not a performer.
This is wonderful, Caleb.
But
you have done so much for all of us
that of course we should do this for you.
You deserve it.
Thank you.
I give him a big hug.
Yeah, okay, good night.
Okay.
Thank you.
I got a,
I got a quick one, too.
We get to that in just a second please?
Yeah, go.
You guys scatter
to your rooms and you go back to feeling better.
You close the door and you sigh
and start preparing yourself for the evenings rest
and then you hear a familiar voice
creep in over you shoulders: "He's not wrong, Jester."
Wait, he's not wrong about, he's not wrong
about you are doing big preparations?
Well, there's a big event coming up, of course.
But not wrong coming about you changing those around you.
Even if I'm not there in person, I'm always there.
And you see the face come over your shoulder
and a familiar hood lean forward,
the smile across the lips and the arm touch your shoulder.
"I know faith can be challenging, but
"you were my first and you'll always be my favorite.
LAURA: (laughs)
Do you want me to do a big performance?
Do you want me to do something special at Traveler Con?
I realize I haven't asked you any questions, I mean,
you ask questions about what you want me to do.
Should I get cloaks together?
MATT: "Sure."
LAURA: Oh, okay, okay.
MATT: "I trust your ideas.
"I trust your inspirations.
LAURA: We're going to make it so special.
MATT: "That we shall."
LAURA: (giggles) I can't wait.
MATT: Caduceus.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Taking a second, thank you.
I'm going to quickly just crawl over
to Yasha's room as she's--
MATT: Okay.
TALIEISN: -- passing out.
So--
Hello.
Hi, I just wanted to put this
in your head before we go any further.
Nobody's really talked about what happened
during the fight and I'm,
some of the others, and I think you'll agree, are,
well, this is a group of loners
and I'm very used to other people's grief and sadness.
I've been around it my whole life
and I've seen every way someone can react
to the worst things in their life.
Yeah.
And--
I understand that that was maybe not the best way to
deal with it, but--
Oh, I'm not here to, to speak down to your process.
I'm not here to tell you how to feel what you're going to feel.
Just make sure
that for whatever grief and rage
and anger that you're going to process,
that you just put 10, 20% of it
on someone else and not just yourself.
You don't have to do too much but you have to
do a little bit with other people.
You can't do it alone.
Thank you.
I don't quite know how to do that yet,
but maybe I will learn.
Storm Lord's good for that
and you have a good group of friends and
they made a promise to save you from the thing that took you
and I'm sure that they're still looking forward
to fulfilling that promise.
Yeah.
I,
(inhales) this is going to sound very strange, but
ugh, I'm,
(exhaling)
can I sleep in your room?
I, not in a weird way, I just seem to--
I shared a single room with a lot of family, yes.
I may snore, they claim I snore, I don't think it's true.
I don't care, I've heard crazy things--
Come on.
When I sleep, but I,
I think I'm just
scared to sleep alone.
Sure, any time.
Okay.
(gentle music)
I'm very excited to help you.
I'm excited to help you, too.
Okay.
I really don't snore.
I don't know why they say it.
(laughter)
Well, I do.
All right, as you all--
Can I read a little before?
I have four hours left.
It's about,
I'd say at this point, because you guys didn't,
I'd say about 11.
It's not too terribly late.
You could read until three and finish it if you want.
Yeah, let's do it.
Okay.
Yes.
Staying up late.
Do-do-do-doo.
Yes, Snore-phan Maker.
(laughter)
Snore-phan Maker. (laughs)
(snoring)
Caduceus does snore.
100%.
But you were engrossed, whether by
the dynamic of the writing of this book,
the unrecognized enchantment that draws you in
and takes hold and has progressively
been imprinting upon you, the magic it holds,
and the occasionally delightful extremely graphic
short stories that are interspersed
throughout some of the back pages,
you complete your reading of the book
and as you close the final--
The butter churner.
(laughter)
As you close the final bit--
Well, that was a first choice.
(laughter)
Yep.
So good.
As you close the back of the book,
an overwhelming exhaustion hits you and immediately,
your eyes dip, dip, and you fall asleep
holding the book to your chest,
back still against the wall.
And that's where we're going to take our break.
(cheering)
All righty, we'll be back here in a few minutes
after a very role play heavy first half.
Yeah.
Good pool, though, there.
It was awesome.
Stone?
We have our world giveaway tonight is
Bolivian rosewood dice vault from
our friends at Wyrmwood to one of you
lucky winners there in the chatroom.
Tonight's keyword is home, H-O-M-E.
Enter it once and only once,
more than once will be disqualified,
and once again, only for folks
in the US and Canada, excluding Quebec.
We'll come back shortly with a winner
and then the rest of tonight's session. (clicks tongue)
There's got to be, right?
Yes.
In the world of Critical Role's Exandria,
a fresh conflict threatens to tear
the continent of Wildemount apart
as the Dwendalian Empire and Kryn Dynasty prepare for war.
Hidden in this vast landscape are secrets that could
end the conflict and usher in a new age of peace
or burn the world to a cinder.
In the Explorer's Guide to Wildemount,
players and dungeon masters will find a whole new continent
to set their Dungeons & Dragons stories,
with new adventures and monsters
unique to the setting of Critical Role.
Players can use the new Heroic Chronicle to create
backstories that link their characters to Wildemount
and grow in power with new sub-classes,
spells, and magic items, including the
reality-bending magic of dunamancy
and the Vestiges of Divergence,
which grow in power with their wielder.
Preorder now on dndbeyond.com and receive
exclusive bonus content with everything you need
to start your own adventure.
Delve into the world of Critical Role
in the Explorer's Guide to Wildemount.
Last time, on Talks Machina.
Have you been on since you've been back?
Yeah, once, right?
I have.
Once, with Matt, so.
Oh, really?
No way.
Yeah.
It was with Matt.
Is this just our routine?
I think so.
All right.
Not a baseball card variant, but--
That's awesome.
So good.
That works out.
It works, it works.
Don't touch him again.
I can't make any promises.
No, literally it's like an insurance thing.
Trav is still--
(laughter)
Matt anymore.
It's going to happen.
Oh.
(dramatic music)
It's very close.
Ooh. (makes alarm noise)
Going to put just a little boop.
I got a knee boop.
In the fight with Kal, was it Yasha's intention
to prove to herself that she could be
in control of the situation and herself,
to do penance, or something else?
Did you/Yasha know she was going to throw the fight
when she agreed to come to the fight club?
It wasn't until we met with
the person in the, behind the, the, the butcher's--
Right, right, the person who's running the actual event.
Yeah, what was their name?
Jacquel, I think.
Jacquel.
Yeah.
Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jacquel.
When she was sort of talking about
fighting one of the champions and I think that just
that word specifically triggered something for Yasha
because of, you know, being a champion for--
Yup.
So I,
at that point, was like, "Oh, you know what?
"I think I'm going to throw the fight.
"I think I'm going to go in, and I think for Yasha, this is a,
"this felt like something that she would need
"and I feel like she's still beating herself up and is,
"thinks she deserves that punishment for what she did."
I, and I think I've even talked about this before
where I think it's so important
to give your characters obstacles
because it's more interesting to give them something
that they can overcome.
Right.
And so, I'm, I'm very excited to see where she,
how she can pull herself out of this.
Yasha has been powering through
that tome for several days in a row.
Does she enjoy reading?
If so, what kinds of books does she like?
Fitness-related ones like the tome or smut like the tome?
(laughter)
Yeah, I think she, she really likes
activities where she
gets to be alone.
I think sort of reading a fitness book isn't necessarily
the first thing that she would go to.
Mm-hmm.
But
I think
because Fjord gave it to her,
it's another, it was another gift
and she takes that very seriously.
We knew with this being the first game back from break,
there would be a little finding the groove for the players.
How do you balance letting them get their wiggles out
with pushing the story forward?
(laughs) Apparently by hiding behind my palms.
(laughter)
Plenty of times, right?
If you can sense the players are having fun,
you let them have fun and it's funny in the right moments
to throw some, some wrenches in that
or throw a nod to a direction that somethings happening.
So, it's just something you feel with your group.
You learn it over time and, like,
since I've known these guys for so long,
I know when they're having fun and they're on a roll
and they're really enjoying the moment
and then I don't want to be like,
"All right guys, back to the narrative,"
if everyone's on the same page
and it's not going too long.
It would be really funny, though, if Matt out of nowhere
was like, "Hey, stop."
Stop it.
(claps) Eyes forward!
I did not, I was not up til 2 a.m.
typing these four pages--
Yeah.
For this farmer to tell you, you know.
I demand respect at this table!
God!
I would die, I would die.
Oh, I'm scared.
We would all start laughing.
Yeah, you would.
I would die.
We'd be like--
I'd be like.
Ha ha ha ha. (laughs)
Then I just got up and left for, like, 20 minutes.
Yeah, and we'd be like, "Oh shit,
"we really did--"
Oh yeah, the pouty, like--
Yeah.
The pouty
leave of the table.
And then it
gets really awkward, then I come back and just, I,
(dramatic music)
I'm really sorry about that, guys.
(laughter)
Just Joaquin Phoenix it.
Yeah.
Yeah,
straight up, straight up.
Did Yasha know Molly's cards were incomplete?
What would she think of Jester continuing the cards?
I don't think Yasha would be upset
that Jester would sort of complete--
Continue the cards, yeah.
The deck because
I think Jester is one of those characters that
you, she wears her heart on her sleeve
and you, you, you know her heart.
She's sentimental.
Yeah, so I think,
I think if--
It's that way.
If that deck went to anybody who would use them,
it couldn't have, it just couldn't have
gone to, in better hands.
Yeah,
there couldn't have been a more chaotic person--
Yeah.
For Molly to have been
happy to see them go to.
Yes, yeah.
I think, I think Yasha knows that Molly
would be so happy.
Yeah.
I also am convinced that Jester is
the evil big bad so she's going to use--
I hope so.
Use the cards
in some sort of magical way to kill all of you.
No comment.
I just can't,
I can't wait to see how Laura uses them
because I know it's going to be amazing.
Yeah, she doesn't, she doesn't forget about stuff.
No.
Jester has been such a,
an unknown, like, pressure valve for Laura's id
that I don't think any of us could've expected.
What a great way to put it.
Like, it's a whole,
it's a whole aspect of her that,
she didn't create Jester outta thin air.
Jester was a part of her that's been,
like, dying to be released--
Yeah.
For so long and we're all just, like,
learning so much about Laura through this campaign.
I'm like, "Oh man, we got to hang out more."
Yeah, definitely, yeah.
And that's the first question he's answered
without touching the, uh, is that
the eyes on the octopus there?
Oh, I'm touching it.
Yeah.
(laughs) Oh.
(laughter)
And that question just got a lot deeper.
Make no mistake, my friend, I am touching it.
Subscribe
or don't subscribe.
That's not a question.
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to ponder the pros
and more pros of Twitch or Twitch Prime
or to take hands and gift new subs
to Critters who find they can't afford them.
To play,
to sleep
no more.
And by, a sleep to say the cast and crew of Crit'cal Role
might find their naps around
the hectic schedule of a live broadcast
that we have brought for your consumption,
both Critter and fan alike.
To play
or sleep.
No sleep,
but just to stream.
Aye, there's the rub.
For with your subscription, what streams may come.
Oh man, oh man, oh man, that is a fucking tag line.
Do we got that?
Oh.
That is Twitch poetry.
(groans) Oh, anyway, subscribe to Critical Role.
Use Twitch Prime to subscribe,
gift some subscriptions, you, you got it.
(inhaling)
Well, wrong slogan for the skull but, uh,
that's fucking good.
(classical music)
(dramatic music)
Hello everyone, welcome back.
So--
Got an ends.
You did.
Before we get back, we have the
winner of our Wyrmwood giveaway.
The winner tonight is Nick Styles X.
Yeah.
Like Mega Man X.
Nick Styles X, congratulations.
We will get that sent out to you ASAP.
All righty, so.
Pursue Dr. Wildy?
(laughter)
Find that medio.
After an evenings rest in the Xhorhaus,
you all come back to a mornings wake,
sun not out because Rosohna.
(knocking)
Five miles, let's go.
Oh Jesus.
No, no.
Come on.
You've got to be fucking kidding me.
You said you wanted to get buff, man, you got pissed
at me last time.
I can smell myself.
You'll sweat it out.
All right, all right.
(clears throat) I'm up, I'm up, by Jorenn.
Yasha, as you wake up in the morning,
your whole body is sore like you'd come out of
an extended battle for a period of time.
And it's strange and you're like, "Ah.
Spider Man.
Yeah, in a very, very
minor Spider Man-like transformation, like,
you're slightly more swole than you previously were.
So your strength goes up by two.
Two!
Oh ho ho ho
shit.
Two?
What does that take you to?
(imitated crashing noises)
Uh huh.
Does that take you to 20?
Delts.
No.
Traps.
Triceps, biceps.
Go to--
Lats, quads--
Where you at in strength?
Where's that strength at?
Let's see, let's see,
let's see.
Glutes.
In the 19.
Hamstrings.
It's 19, yeah.
Rhomboids.
Coccyx.
(laughter)
Sphincter. (laughs)
Go to your ability scores is
where you would find all of that.
Yeah, it's not letting us in, though.
You know what?
Maybe if I go to, hid my DM.
Okay.
Yo, my sphincter's swole. (laughs)
(chair creaking)
Sorry.
So.
(laughter)
Shit, over the break, we should've
talked about what we were going to do.
Yeah, what are you guys going to do?
Shit.
Hey Sam, whatcha going to do?
Uh, we made a to do list.
Yasha's going to get that armor.
Yeah, let's go there first.
Well, is it going to fit her anymore?
Yeah, of course, it was bracers.
Oh.
They can expand.
But have you seen her wrists now?
I don't know, have you?
Do you arrive back
at the house, like--
Popeye.
Do you arrive back at the house,
like, 20 minutes before I do?
Five miles is no fucking joke.
No, it's not.
Can you not
hear the music, Sam?
But I'm also pretty dope.
Okay, there you go.
So, 30 minutes before I do?
Yasha, if you're awake, let's go get your bracies.
Wow.
Okay.
(laughter)
What the?
ASHLEY: (drawn out) What?
(laughter)
SAM: You talk that way now?!
Oh my god!
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Wow, yeah--
ASHLEY: Cool.
TALIESIN: Okay.
SAM: Good night's sleep.
ASHLEY: Wow, wow, wow, wow, wow.
Okay, whoa, whoa, whoa, wow.
That changes so many things.
This is so cool.
LAURA: Whoa, your attacks are going
to be better and everything.
ASHLEY: (exhaling)
Yeah, so I need to go get those bracers, but
I wonder if maybe they'll give us a deal. (laughs)
SAM: Do you not have enough money? Didn't we already pay?
ASHLEY: Well, I paid half.
SAM: How much do you owe?
ASHLEY: About 2,000 bones.
SAM: How much do you have?
ASHLEY: I currently have about just under that.
LAURA: Okay--
SAM: Jester can maybe chip in.
LAURA: Yeah, I can--
ASHLEY: No, no, no,
no, it's, no, I don't want you guys chipping in anymore.
I can figure this out.
LIAM: So are we
going to-- *heilige**.
I don't know, I read that book, I finished it.
But I feel, like, very different.
I got that book from Caleb, you know.
I think we may have a spider problem in the house.
(laughter)
We should pass that book around.
That extra layer that I had, it's now just like (sucks).
Yeah, where is that book now, anyway?
You have the book.
It is, it's here.
Oh.
Do you want to read it,
Fjord, since you gave it to me?
I mean, it's clearly got some sort of
a regiment you're benefiting from.
Well it, you know what's weird about it is, like--
Can I borrow your P90X discs?
It's got, like, words in it but
it seems just, like, lame now.
Yeah, like not magical anymore.
It seems like when I was looking through it
again this morning that the only thing
that stuck is the sexy bits.
It still has smut in it.
You can read it, Fjord, there's some good stuff in there.
I thought I found a recipe for something in there, too.
Yeah.
Yeah,
some stuff in there I've never tried.
Yeah, yeah.
I love a hot shower
after a really long work out, you know,
where you just, like, sit in the shower for--
Shower.
Hey, Yasha.
Yeah,
I think I must must've had a good--
Are we commenting on this?
Are we talking about this?
She's shredded.
We're talking about it, yeah.
I'm blaming spiders.
I just wasn't sure
if I should, like, be coy or not.
How did this happen overnight?
I don't know.
I didn't work out in my sleep or anything, I just,
I think, I think maybe it was something that I ate.
Like, you know when you're prepping for something
and then, like, I've heard
sometimes--
Carbo loading?
Yeah.
There was a lotta carbs in that meal.
It was a very, I did use, I used a lotta yams,
there's a lotta--
Maybe you
ate poorly with Obann and now, with Caduceus, you know,
after a couple--
Yeah.
We should switch to gluten free wines.
It was like a beet yam--
Yeah.
Disgusting.
I have been working out
since 6 a.m. and fucking she wakes up like that?
You look great, Beau.
I'll make some more
brussel sprouts, whatever is necessary.
You're so cut.
Thank you.
I mean, I learned a lot of--
It suits your body, you know?
Like, you're perfect, just the way you are.
You're like diamonds, you're just--
You know what?
Maybe aasimars have, like, a second puberty, you know?
Like, you just hit it, you just hit it last night.
How old are you?
I actually don't really know.
There you go, you just hit it.
Yeah, it's possible.
I don't know much about--
Do you smell worse?
Like, did your BO just (whistles) through the roof?
(sniffing)
How do you smell?
I smell like a crayon.
(laughter)
That's a good smell.
You know.
(laughter)
That's a good smell.
And we all went there.
(laughter)
(chair scraping)
There's a reason for that and
a story I will tell you all later.
All right.
Why?
What?
Deep backstory cut.
You did.
(laughter)
It's a deep story--
Also would've called it.
I kind of want to know, can you just tell us right now?
On our way.
We'll go get the bracers.
We're walking and talking, walking and talking.
Okay.
Um, yeah.
So, as a group, you leave the house
and make the way towards the Marble Tomes Conservatory.
Caleb, go, don't talk to me, but Caleb's going to
do research at home with the spell stuff.
Okay, gotcha.
'Kay.
Okay.
So, you go ahead and make your way
towards the Marble Tomes Conservatory,
referring to a different clerk,
but within a short period of time, you are brought to
the door of the familiar face of Enchanter Yun,
who steps out after being summoned.
"Oh, hello.
"There is quite a few people here, it appears.
"But you returned."
Yes, I have returned.
I have returned and I came to pick up the bracers
if they are ready, but--
They are ready.
How much did I owe again?
Was it?
Let me check.
Okay.
And he goes and slips back and you
look through the crack in the door.
There's a bunch of shelves containing all sorts of
jars and various, you know, collected materials
that are probably used in the enchantment process
or the creation of various enchanted items.
Eventually he comes back, about a minute later,
and goes, "Here on the register,
"we have you still owing 2,000 gold pieces."
Okay, that is what I thought.
Okay so,
I might not be ready to
pick them up just yet--
She's ready, she's ready.
She's absolutely ready.
No, no, no, no.
I'm not, I'm going to give you what I have,
which is, um,
I have, um,
here's 1,710 gold pieces.
Here's 300, well, here's 200 more gold.
And here's the other 110?
Nope, nope.
No we don't--
130.
Yeah, this is all--
290 is left.
Yup.
I promise I'll--
No, we paid it all.
That's everything, that's everything.
He just accepts all the gold and goes, "Very well.
"I will retrieve them for you now."
Leaves them, comes back.
The bracers that you had originally
commissioned provided as part of it--
Oh wait, so I can use that.
Oh, it was counted in there, it was, it just, yeah.
I understand.
Yeah.
Okay.
So,
it returns with the bracers--
I don't understand money.
It's okay.
As they were originally commissioned,
now you see they've been intricately designed upon.
There is all sorts of incredible
scrolling and shapes, it looks almost like
swirling flames across the sides of the metal.
Sick.
They look beautiful.
Polished, fresh, new, unworn.
And presents them to you and goes,
"Just to make sure you are aware,
"that equipment you are wearing with the horns,
"they're not compatible together.
"You will have to, if you are intending
"to use these yourself or you can give them to
"somebody else as a gift maybe, but just so you are aware."
Okay.
Of course.
Yes.
I'll,
good day.
What's it going to, what does, what does your armor do?
It is, I know it's like that armor
that you were made to wear before,
but is it like special armor or something?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
That was, they sold what now?
Enchanter Yun, it doesn't sell things
necessarily as it is a, partially, from what you would know,
and from Caleb's interaction there,
it's partially a conservatory for teaching
the enchantment and creation of magical items,
but they do commissions as well.
(gentle music)
What does it do, the bracers?
I think they just,
protection, I don't, you know.
Mm.
Do we have a--
Paper?
Card, card, paper.
Are they just bracers plus--
No, Bracers of Defense is what they are in D&D Beyond.
So, that would be--
That's what I have.
Correct?
Yeah.
That is what you have?
Yeah, it gives a--
Plus two to your armor class.
Plus two.
Tight.
As long as you're not wearing armor.
As long as you're not wearing--
So, what's your unarmored--
Gosh, I wonder if somebody else should take these?
Oh, easy, easy way to see, actually,
is just go to your, it's just remove that.
That's all right.
Oh, I took my--
Remove.
Oh, just--
So, it's the same.
It's the same.
No armor--
But now you don't have to wear that
awful armor that Obann made you wear.
Is that why you smell like a crayon?
Is it the armor?
I don't think so, I think--
Why do you smell like a crayon?
Gosh, I don't know what to do.
Does she have that funky thing where if she
wears no armor, her AC's higher,
unarmored--
Depends.
She gets to add her dexterity
and her constitution modifier without armor.
Mm.
Oh.
Is how it works.
So, it's way better without armor.
Well, it depends on how high
your dexterity and constitution is.
I need to think about this.
Well, the other--
Well,
plus the bracers you'll go back up to 17.
Yeah, they're both the same.
This one, this is, this is--
Just other stuff, though?
Yeah.
That's true.
I need to think about this for a second.
Yeah, I need to think about this for a little bit.
Caduceus, is there anything we need to
pick up on our, as we prepare to voyage?
I mean, we obviously have to go back
and get Caleb and stuff, but I mean, do you have a--
Matter with diamond, but other than that--
That's right, we could use some diamonds.
How many?
As many as we can find.
As many as we can get.
Could probably steal some.
Because, you know,
we, they have to be good diamonds, not,
they can't just be little dinky diamonds.
Give me two hours.
We need a 300 and a 500 worth.
I'll go buy them. (laughs)
Aww.
I guess.
Do you want to go on a shopping trip on your lonesome?
Do you want some company?
Sure.
I'll go with her.
All righty.
Looking for diamonds.
Easy enough to find.
You return to an individual known as Besh Turmin,
who we had previously had an encounter with.
If you'd like to go to the Turmin's Tinctures and Tonics.
You return to this, this, this unique shop
run by a duergar figure.
So, stocky, you know, red crew cut figure
with this giant, like, (wheezes) of a red beard,
you know, dark duergar skin.
As you walk in, he goes like, "Hey, can I help ye?"
Oh hi, um, you're a jeweler, correct?
No, but I can get ye jewels?
That's all we need.
We're returning patrons.
Yes, we've been here--
Right, right.
I recognize you, okay.
What's your name again?
I'm sorry.
Besh.
Besh, that's right, Besh, Besh.
But you can just call me Turmin.
That's what most folks say.
Is that your last name?
Aye.
Oh, Besh Turmin.
Yes, we're interested in some fine jewels.
So, whatcha looking for?
Two diamonds.
How big?
Like, a this and a that.
You point out the specific sizes
that previous spells have used, which, that,
you know, they're not too big,
they're not like giant, handheld things.
"Okay, I'll have to ask around.
"Might take a few hours, but I can look into it."
Oh, you don't have them on site.
No, I'm not a jeweler, but I know people who are jewelers
that I can get those for ya, lickety split.
So, you're a middleman.
Aye, for certain things.
We could just go straight to
the jeweler, then, maybe get--
Do you know where the jewelers are?
(laughter)
I don't, but if you told me where they were.
But then I'd be screwing myself
outta some coin, wouldn't I?
This gentleman's connections are worth the coin.
Ah, that's a smart little half-orc, eh?
Not little, all right?
I ran five miles this morning, it's a process.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
I think we should pay this gentleman.
Do we have to pay now or upon delivery?
You can pay now if you want to, but--
How 'bout later?
On pick up, all right.
I'll see what I can find.
Thank you.
No worries.
And if they're not to your interest,
we've got all sorts of delightful tonics and balms
and salves and things to help with indigestion,
we've got things to hide, got all sorts of' things.
And he starts just pointing across the room
and there's just these little labels on them and--
Is it a he, she?
It's a he.
Did you--
From what you can tell.
Those are potions that you have, right Fjord?
All of these?
Yeah, those are ours.
Do you own those?
No,
I believe they belong to the group.
But I mean have you passed them out?
I don't think so.
I don't think so
or have you guys, we could consolidate it
right now--
We don't
need any more is what I'm saying.
Oh my, nope, we're good.
Any magical potions or magical oils?
Ee, I, most of it's topical.
I, you know, folks here don't get a lotta sunlight,
so for those that wants it, I got a few things to help
just get some good vitamins in the top surface.
Let's see, yeah, things magical.
Some vitamin D rub.
Yeah. (laughs)
We got some willowshade oil.
What's that do?
What's that?
It's a very rare fruit.
It come from the willowshade plant.
It's harvested far to the west.
It's sort of, I think, a filling
on the Menagerie Coast, I had it sent over.
This, when you put it on, you want to put it on
in advance if you want to, a little bit,
I'm sure it feel a bit tingly,
but there are things and dangers out there
that make your skin get all cracky and turn to stone.
Supposedly it helps with that.
Oh.
It helps
against things that turn your skin to stone.
(gasping)
I think so.
We were looking for basilisk oil, remember?
You should get it. (coos)
Is it basilisk oil?
No, it's from a fruit.
Yeah.
It's in like an acai berry, it's all the craze right now.
How much does that cost?
Ah, I've got two and it's 40 gold a piece.
Oh, that seems reasonable.
Fjord, pay the gentleman.
You got it.
Boop.
80 gold,
thank you very much.
Willow wisp, what is it?
Willowbark.
Willow--
Willowshade oil.
You got
two of those you can mark.
Great.
Willowshade oil.
Look at that, that's cool.
Thank you, we'll see you in a few hours.
Aye, aye.
While they're off doing that,
I'm going to search out somewhere
to look for something like beard oil,
something that can make beards grow.
Magic beard oil?
Go ahead and make--
D&D everyone now.
Make an investigation check, I'll say.
Eight.
Yeah.
About 20 minutes after they leave
Turmin's Tinctures and Tonics.
Figured as much. (laughs)
You end up in the same place.
"Hi, can I help you?"
Hi, yes.
I am looking for some, like, oil or something
you put on your face to make a beard
grow better.
Aye?
That we've got.
Oh, really?
Aye, 'pends how many applications you're looking for,
but we've got some in big vials, small vials, all sorts.
Sorry, it's my assistant.
She's delivering snacks for the time being.
Oh, wonderful.
What kind of snacks?
Well, they're not for you.
I don't feel like I should've
brought these donuts right here.
But aye, how much you looking for?
Would you like a big vial?
I don't know, it's just for one person's beard.
But I don't know how much work it's going to
take to really get it to grow, you know.
Are they perhaps a duergar?
No.
Oh, it's going to be
a tough push for a beard then, no matter who they are.
I'd recommend getting a larger vial.
How much is that?
That would be,
it's somewhere around 100 to 150 applications
and it takes about, standard,
non-duergar lineage individuals,
about half that amount to grow a full beard
in a short parody of time, so I'd say that
puts you about, ah, 55 gold.
And then, like, what do they do?
Like, put it on, like three times a day or like?
In the morning when they wake up
and at night before they go to sleep.
(wheezing laughter)
Okay.
And then, so how long will it take to grow a beard then?
Depends on who it is, but it'll be
thrice as fast as it would be normally.
Most likely.
Or it could just be like a normal beard growth
because isn't that how long it normally takes?
I don't know, I don't have a beard.
Trust me.
Okay!
All right.
(laughter)
(clapping)
50 gold, you said?
55.
This could definitely end well.
And for this, I get a giant vial of oil.
Of beard oil.
God, the juxtaposition to Vex is just stellar.
So great, isn't it?
(laughter)
Okay, I--
Okay.
(laughter)
(imitated chicken noise)
This is fine.
Beard oil.
Thank you so much.
Of course, any time.
If you need more of that, if you've got more friends
who's trying to grow out something fancy like this,
(laughs) you let me know.
Okay.
While this is happening,
you're doing your research, Caleb.
Go ahead and roll an--
Ah yeah, this is on, oh,
I've already cast Fortune's Favor on myself.
All righty.
So, this is for Nott's problem.
(dice clattering)
A burning wind of peace?
Yes.
And here goes Fortune's Favor, see if I can do better.
Both 13, so that is a 23.
That's the worst, when--
A 23?
(gentle music)
You get to a point in this equation where you begin to
see the light at the end of the tunnel in its design.
Elements of it are still escaping you a bit
and the materials that are going to be needed
to experiment with the development of this
is going to start getting a little,
start costing you some money.
While they're in this, you could
rush out and pick up supplies.
I'd say to continue this thread,
it would cost you about 250 gold pieces
to get everything you need to experiment
with this next portion of the equation.
I will do that, I will go
running out helter skelter, papers--
Easy enough to find based on the materials
you've already tried to gather in this city.
You come back, slam the door shut.
You're in that obsessive beautiful mind mode.
What's wrong, big guy?
Focusing on it.
Magic stuff!
(laughter)
Continuing to push towards
its development, it's getting close.
And there's that element of, like,
a breakthrough around the corner
that's bothering you because it's eluding you.
But you can sense it now.
You know you're not terribly far off
from a design completion.
As to whether or not it will succeed, who knows,
and what path'll get you, it'll take for you to get there.
But that's about as far as you can
reach with your morning attempt.
Got it, great, good.
Two more sessions and I'm back.
(laughter)
I'm calling it right now.
Oh my god.
All right, so--
Okay, cool.
The rest of you--
Are you
going to call it, like, Nott's Proof?
Name it after Nott's equation?
Nott's Berry Farm.
(laughter)
So, you guys, have gathered your things.
If there's anything else you want to try and accomplish
in Rosohna, otherwise you can return to the Xhorhaus.
It's good to return.
I've got something with Caduceus because I went home.
You want me to help you pack?
Now, I'm just upstairs--
Do you need anything?
Taking care of the trees, making sure
the plants are all right, picking anything
I want to bring with me.
I can help you.
I am so fucking bored.
Let me do something, please, for the love of gods.
You're bored?
Yeah.
Well, it's good, it builds character.
Yeah, come on in.
Okay.
Just going to garden for a little while.
Garden.
So, you guys garden a bit.
Go back in a few hours, see if the diamonds are ready.
There is one diamond worth 300 gold
and there is one worth 50 gold, smaller one.
That doesn't help us.
300.
I'll take the 300.
Ooh, all right.
And the smaller one, it's perfect for tiny jewels and gifts.
It is really nice.
It is, ch-ch-ch-ch.
50 gold, it's just like a,
it's just like a, like a little one?
Ah, do you want to, look at it.
It's a little, like, it's a little one,
little grain of diamond.
Wonder if I have,
if only Jester were here, she could
tell me if that's useful.
I'll take that one, too.
There you go.
350?
All right.
Mmkay.
Done.
Bye, thank you Beth, Besh,
Besh Turmin.
Turmin, just go Turmin.
Yeah, bish.
Let's go, Besh.
Cash me outside.
While you guys are returning,
a voice comes to your mind, Jester.
"This is Ludinus."
Oh shit.
"To notify that Vence
"has been found and incarcerated.
(gasping)
"Interrogations will progress.
"The negotiation is accepted."
A follow up message continues this thread:
"The perceived transgressions of
"The Mighty Nein have been absolved.
"The negotiation is outlined to occur in four weeks.
Oh.
Whoa.
Cutting it close to Traveler Con.
Third message comes through:
"Prolonging the ceasefire as the naval forces
"on both sides are gathered and outfitted for travel."
Additional message:
"To the agreed upon neutral location
"in the Lucidian Ocean."
That's the completion of the update.
Wow.
I tell everyone all of it.
Get in loser, we're torturing people.
Four weeks.
When was Traveler Con, five?
Five weeks-ish.
Okay.
It's close by.
'Kay, we go, we do that, and then (snaps) our reward,
our vacation, is Traveler Con.
Yeah, it's perfect.
Okay.
It's dope.
But we should start
heading down that way now--
Get the boat.
In case we get waylaid.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, by the way, here's a diamond.
Oh, sweet.
What can that do?
Can that, can that do, can that--
Well, the 300 gold, that's, that can
bring somebody back to life is what that can do.
So, good, the debt is repaid.
Thank you for saving my life before.
Well, you don't, it's not a debt.
Well, it is, and I know it's not
because I just paid it back.
(laughter)
Do you have a diamond already?
I have a 350, so if you have a--
I only have a 500.
So, you need a three, take another 350, then.
I'll take the 300 one.
It's a 350 diamond, right?
Or a 300--
300 gold
diamond and then a 50 gold diamond.
Oh, you don't need the other 50 gold diamond.
We don't know what that does yet.
I'm keeping the 50.
Yeah, okay.
Oh come on, where is it?
Unless you need it?
No.
Yeah, that's fine.
Nott
smiles real big and just.
(laughter)
It's just shoved in between two teeth.
Like it?
It looks infected.
I don't know.
Oh no.
Tattooed, grill on.
As you return, Caleb has been
shut into his research facility
and you can hear the clattering around.
You are, like, in that mad place of, like,
close but there's a blockage and you're, like,
trying desperately to find
a way around that, that inspiration block.
Come here.
Ah!
I pull her in and I start dancing around.
Look at this, look at this, look here.
I spent a couple of hours and then I ran out
and I had to bring some components back.
And I bypassed the hold that was keeping it from, you know,
from locking in place and I can't do it yet
but I think I know a way that I could know, but not yet.
Does that make sense?
Doc, doc, doc.
(laughter)
Caleb, Caleb, were you eating those?
Because that was a baking experiment gone horribly wrong.
I used way too much sugar.
Those cookies are fantastic.
More.
More of them.
This is just.
Great Nott!
(laughter)
(clapping)
That was good one.
Yup, yup, go for it.
Donut reward.
1.21 giga-Notts.
(laughter)
The Libyans?
All right.
This is amazing.
Thank you, Caleb.
But the end result is that I don't know how it works.
Oh.
But I--
All right.
You know how
these things go.
No,
but that's, this is progress.
We're so close, you're so close.
You are so close.
Great.
That's what she said, ha.
Ha ha ha.
I don't get it.
This is pretty important--
Is it?
Walk out here with me.
Ugh.
Cup her by the face.
A little bit longer, a little bit longer,
maybe Essek, he'll help me, we will have it.
All right, all right.
Do you believe me?
Of course I believe you, yes.
Good.
Thank you.
(whooshing)
Oh.
Shuts himself in.
Wait.
We have, oh.
Ah, we were going to go.
Oh yeah, but we're leaving.
I need an hour!
Okay.
Ooh, ooh, in an hour.
I'm just going to run out to the store
and see if I can find somewhere where
I can buy, like, a bunch of green cloaks. (laughs)
(laughter)
Sure.
How many green cloaks do you want to buy?
Like, as many as they have.
Every green cloak in the kingdom.
(talking over each other)
(laughter)
Army, navy surplus.
I don't know if it's like a store
where it's a bunch of like, you know when you go to
the ren faire and there's, like, all a bunch of--
The green cloak store?
Yeah, the green cloak section.
Yeah, okay.
I'll say--
(laughter)
Or just a bunch of green fabric, I can do that too.
Green fabric is easier.
Cloaks, you can find a dozen, 12 green cloaks
of slightly varying shades, but all green.
Some that--
In plastic bags
that are, like, very iffy.
Yeah, like, "Satin?"
They have an ad on them.
For the 12 of them, it'll cost you,
we'll say 5 gold pieces all together.
Oh, awesome.
And for additional material.
They're not super fancy cloaks, but they're
decent enough to still cost, you know, a fair sum.
Lord of the Rings cloak.
Yeah, pretty much.
Yup, it's from Party City.
(laughter)
Material, you could purchase enough material
for 20 cloaks if you'd like and that'll run you,
just material-wise, about an additional 6 gold.
You could make them.
Okay.
And that all fabric will fit in my haversack?
It will but it would push
the limits of one of the pouches.
There's some stuff in there.
You don't need 20 acolytes, you only need 12.
Well.
It's very biblical.
Of varying sizes.
In fact, for the haversack,
it might be a little tough because
the bolts are pretty, pretty long and the haversack
has limitations on the pocket size.
Might be something that you have to
consider with the bag of holding.
Okay, I can just carry them.
Okay well, I'm just going to get the additional
6 gold worth of fabric, just in case.
So, we'll say, like, four bolts of green fabric
is what you can put down.
Oh my god.
I hate going to the fabric district, it's too much.
You love going to the fabric district.
I like going to the clothing, well, yeah.
(laughter)
Raw bolts, though.
Raw bolts.
Raw bolts, it's just like--
I like going to the fabric district.
Do you have enough gold?
No, no, I do.
Wait, okay, but platinum is
equals 10 gold.
Correct.
I thought if I just subtracted the gold,
it would automatically make my platinum go down.
You can--
Got to be
careful, though.
You can get change, right?
That's what I thought.
I mean, with the seller.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
What's the platinum to gold exchange rate in Exandria--
10 gold per platinum.
Changes approved per day,
fluctuates.
10.01--
You have to keep tabs on that.
So, if I subtract one platinum, I can add 100 gold.
10 gold.
10 gold for one platinum.
10 gold, right.
Okay, so, okay, so that's--
So, one platinum and one gold will pay for both
the cloaks and the bolt.
Okay.
(yawning)
Sugar.
That is with nine gold.
Okay, got it.
All right.
All right, hour's up, Cay.
We're leaving.
Okay.
I, real quick.
I want to go up to my room just alone.
Okay.
I'm going to close the door, make sure
that it's locked--
Mm-hmm.
And am I able to take off the breastplate?
Ooh.
Uh, yeah, you are.
It takes a little bit to do it yourself,
but like, five minutes to pull off.
Okay.
(sighing)
I'm going to put it back on.
Okay.
Then I go downstairs.
Did it say Crayola underneath?
No?
No.
All right, so whatta you guys want to do?
(sighing)
We are preparing to go for a quest.
Yeah.
Caduceus, where do we go?
Where's the map?
There's no reason to check back into the Empire, right?
We're good for a bit.
Yeah, four weeks.
All right.
Did you respond to them?
Oh, I should respond.
I'm going to send a message back.
Oh, but I could have responded to his messages.
So, yes I would've done that and said, "Cool, good to know.
"Everything's good here.
"We are doing what you said and we'll let them know
"about the meet up and it's all good to go."
Mmkay.
Make an intelligence check, Caleb.
Oh shit.
Whitedawn Lagoon?
I roll terrible in this campaign, 13 total.
Okay.
Rolled a three.
Um.
Oh ho ho boy.
Hm.
Oh, you might have the map.
Which map, I'm trying to find the right map.
The Whitedawn Lagoon is at the
very, very bottom of that map.
Yeah, Whitedawn Lagoon.
Right here--
It is a challenge to get to from where you are.
But?
So you have to figure out
what your, if that's where you're heading next,
then consider your course of travel.
Essek! (laughs)
We could--
This is in, in the Dynasty?
Yeah, so it's south of where we are right now.
So, would it be best to leave from
the Menagerie Coast and take the boat, perhaps?
I mean, maybe.
Oh wow.
It's not a so good idea.
Instead of going across land?
Does that connect?
Yeah.
If you go from Nicodranas, you'd head south
past Rumblecusp, Urukayxl,
and then you go, continue to go west, and you'll
eventually get there.
We could do a fly by
of where the con's going to be.
But it'll take--
West?
It'll take awhile via ship.
Specifically--
Longer?
If you're going a fast pace, oh actually no,
it's just a regular pace on ship there,
(paper rustling)
about four miles an hour, well if you're a longship,
about three miles an hour, actually,
because you're not a galley, you're a longship.
So, three miles an hour is what you're
looking to be traveling at and the distance around is,
I'll have to check what the--
I think so.
Think thought.
It's going to be a few hundred miles.
How, huh?
Yeah.
A few hundred miles.
Maybe
we should travel magically.
But we
still have to get out boat there.
Yeah, but we can do that in a--
No, we have to tell Orly to get our boat to meet us
if we're going to and it'll still take him--
Well, we should send him now.
We should at least let Orly know
where he needs to be when.
So where should I tell him to meet us?
Well, probably, probably board at the Menagerie Coast
to head to where the meetings going to be,
so however long with a little time extra.
So tell him to meet us at the
Menagerie Coast in three weeks?
And then we just bamf to Menagerie Coast?
I mean, ideally, it'd be Essek to where we need to go,
Caleb to the Menagerie Coast.
Where are we right now?
Then the boat to wherever we need to go.
But then, I mean, he said the boat is going to take,
to the meetup point, the boat will take a few hundred miles?
To the Lucidian Ocean, which is
a hundred, a hundred miles away?
The Menagerie Coast should have a--
Is, it's really not going to be quicker
to go by boat than to walk?
Or ride.
We got to get horses?
Can you go ahead and get my map out?
Going to double check.
Horses would be better.
No, but so where we're going right now
is not where the Traveler Con is.
No, we're going to Caduceus' place first.
Yes, so we don't need the boat there at all.
No, but we just need to tell the boat where to meet us
because it's going to take a while
from wherever we go to get to the meet up,
right?
Yeah.
Unless we, because where's, but we don't know
where the meet up point is yet, right?
That's part of the problem.
But I thought we did, I thought he just
told me where the meet up point was.
Well, it was off of, we're meeting in the Menagerie,
in Nicodranas and then setting port from Nicodranas,
is that's what happening?
Do we, Matt, DM, oh, you're already calculating something.
What is that?
What is your question?
I can't remember, did we name a specific place
or just a region at this point?
You named a center point between Nicodranas
and the Whitedawn Lagoon.
To be determined?
It is to be determined by, and they're going to notify you
as soon as they find out the specifics there.
There is no landfall, it is to be at sea on a ship.
Okay.
It's going to be
just south of the southern-most portion of
the Ashkeeper Peaks is generally where it's going to be.
This is also where--
Which is about, by ship,
it's about 300 miles ride from Nicodranas
via red standard ship, which is why it's taking four weeks
to arrange this based on the location you guys chose.
All the naval forces of both sides
are going to be present here, are all preparing,
getting things ready, and then doing
an extended travel there, hence why it's taking
four weeks before this arrangement happens.
Okay.
So.
That is where it stands.
Is it best--
To the Whitedawn Lagoon from Nicodranas,
it's going to be roughly 450 miles travel.
What's our closest point of comfortable teleportation
with what we have now from the Whitedawn Lagoon?
You're looking at either Nicodranas or Asarius.
Where is Asarius?
It's north of Nicodranas.
Right?
Where is it?
(laughter)
I love that we all have this map.
That's the Empire over there.
Yeah, the Empire map, it's not on there.
But, yeah. (laughs)
Is it on Xhorhas?
Asarius?
Asarius is
on the Xhorhas map, yes.
It is in the center, center north area.
So, we want to travel south and we want our boat
to start traveling now to pick us up just off the,
on the coast underneath where we're going
for Cad's shizznit.
Because we
need to be where for you, here?
No, for you.
Oh, it is the lagoon.
Yeah, it's the
Whitedawn Lagoon is where we're going.
Well, shit.
So, we'll
send Orly to the southern tip--
Of the Whitedawn Lagoon.
Yeah.
Okay, I'm going to--
You have, you have,
that's for your teleportation as well.
You guys have been to the Lotusden Greenwood,
that is where you battled--
Oh yeah, we could bamf there.
We don't have, we can go there?
But Essek could take us.
You do not have the thing.
Essek took you there last time.
Yeah.
Say that, what was that?
Essek took you guys there
last time.
Took us there last time.
He likes us now, he could take us.
There's a, there's a pass.
The Lagoon is where we chased Yasha and Obann, right?
Yeah, okay, okay.
Yeah, we chased you.
Yeah, that's right.
Asarius is right here.
That's really far.
I mean--
Yeah, let's get Essek and go by magic.
This is crazy.
Let's go to his house, let's go to his house.
Show us where his house is.
Okay, we can do that.
Oh boy.
Are we ready to go?
Let's go.
Yup, let's go.
Bye.
All right.
So, you're gathering all your materials
and getting ready to move?
We're splitting.
Okay.
Is that cool, everybody?
Yeah.
Okay, Beauregard and Caleb will lead
the group over to Essek's towers.
Bamfing straight to the lagoon.
All right.
If we can.
Okay.
You pack up your materials and make your way across
the neighborhood to the outside of Essek's property.
For most of you, aside from the two of you,
this is your first time seeing it and it's,
in its unique splendor, presented before you.
You come to the front gate, the gate is closed.
Should we--
I'll send him a message.
Yeah, I'll send him a message.
"Hey Essek, we're out front of your house.
"We're just wondering if you would have breakfast
"with us in your house and also take us somewhere."
I just start waving towards the house.
That doesn't go through in the message.
He might, what if he peeks out?
He comes back, "I was wondering whether or not
"you were going to stop by today."
There's a brief pause and you see,
on one of the walkways from one of the towers,
you see a figure step out and look over.
Ha, see, see?
Hey!
Yeah, of course.
Gives a nod and continues to the next tower
and then eventually emerges from below.
Essek approaches, waves a hand, and the gate
(makes creaking noise) opens and lets you guys in.
Yay.
Come, come, allow me to--
Sorry we are late.
Oh, it is all right.
I do have some food prepared as a
return favor for the delicious dinner.
Thank you, Caduceus.
This way, please.
Yay.
Leads you into this what appears to be
a foyer-ish type chamber with, you know, nice
furniture curved on the edges of it.
The smell, when you come inside, is very
(snaps) strangely herbal, like it has a very
earthy, herbal smell to the air there with a bit of,
only thing I describe is like a hint of electrical fire,
something like that sort of smell.
But there are these beautiful almost glass-like stairs
that emerge from the wall that don't have
a hard-set connecting pivot, they're just
free-floating, it seems, outside of the stone wall
and they're just translucent steps
that lead up the spiral of the tower you're in.
Ultra modernist, got to say.
Yeah. (laughs)
And he, "Allow me to take care of this for you."
And he waves his hand for a second
and you watch as the chairs, the furniture
(scraping)
scoots from the edges into the center,
forming a little seating area, table scoots in.
Caleb, you should learn to do that.
That's really impressive.
I can do an approximation of it
but it's a little more herky jerky than that.
Big cat paw pushes it over.
Oh, that's true, yeah.
Eventually, he brings some food
and sits you all down.
"So,
"how do I do this?
"How was your day?"
Really great so far.
We did some shopping, some errands, we're going on a trip.
We've arranged, we've received word
of some of the details of this meeting.
Yeah, they found Vence.
Ah, that is good news.
It appears now both sides have a
cultist of some esteem in our midst.
That bodes well for the negotiations.
Should I just tell you?
They said the negotiation's good to go.
Everyone's getting ready.
Four weeks.
They've probably notified at least someone in the council
but I will pass this on as well.
Four weeks, very well.
Did you bring that project you were working on?
I have it with me all the time, yeah.
Do you want to eat first and then--
Yes, let's, let's eat.
Or you could eat and we can take a look at it.
How was your day?
(laughter)
Fine, I've been here.
Yeah.
Do you go out, like, during the day?
Do you go shopping and stuff?
When necessary.
Do you float in your house or do you walk in your house?
Does he float in his house?
He's currently floating and as soon
as you say that, he goes (clicks tongue).
(laughter)
You don't have to float around us, man.
It's cool.
It's a habit.
You should walk with, what is it, a swagger.
You could show, you could show him how to walk with swagger.
I could totally teach you swagger.
Like your ring walk, you know, like how you prep--
Want me to teach you swagger?
I don't know what that is.
Sure, sure.
You know sass?
Fucking crack it out, let's go.
You know?
What are you, miming?
What is this, what is--
I just, I walk with swagger.
Oh, oh.
(laughter)
A strut.
Yeah, do what she does.
It's, you know.
Vogue.
I'm good, thank you.
Aw, come on.
I follow Beau around the room.
Wow.
Very well.
Can I have look at your notes?
You know, this trick, right?
You know this one?
You push up.
Essek, Essek!
His cloak is, like, completely
obscuring his torso and he's--
Essek, yeah?
You are
making him uncomfortable.
You're making him uncomfortable.
Ka-pow, Storm Lord, thunder and lightning.
Swagger.
There are cheeses.
Ooh, I like cheese.
I am so excited for cheese.
This is good.
What kind of pastries?
Are we talking good pastries?
They're, like, some small
wafer cookies, nothing too super sweet.
You're a little disappointed.
They're okay.
(laughter)
Dry up the mouth a little bit.
I'm going to put a couple in my pocket.
That's pretty good, disappointment.
They're functional.
It's like--
Show him!
The grandma gives you vanilla wafers
and you're like, "Mm."
Right here or--
Yeah, show him the book.
All right, so Caleb starts to move food and drink
out of the way because he doesn't want to
harm any of the books--
Here, come to my laboratory.
It would be easier.
Oh.
Should we all go?
No, no.
Just them.
Just me and Caleb.
Feed your ferret your crackers or whatever.
All right, for a second.
Nott, come.
Of course.
He leads you up the stairs, gliding
for the first few steps and then
stops and starts actually taking steps.
And you can see there's a bit of
a disjointed aspect to it, you see him trying to
change his instinctual behavior around you.
I bet Essek gets, like, really tired when he's
walking up stairs now because he's not used to doing it,
so when he's forced to do it, it's like.
(laughter)
He doesn't want to act winded but he's, like,
probably really outta breath by the time he's at the top.
You head up to a secondary floor.
This one has a window that overlooks
that part of the neighborhood.
There are a number of shelves of books,
there are some small glass cases that contain
what looks to be keepsakes or objects
that are just out of view.
He leads you to one of two doors
that opens up into one of those pathways
that connects towers and leads you to
the tallest tower and from there, you go into
a mid-chamber of this next structure.
Within here, the smell itself is almost saccharin sweet
but has a very chemical smell to it.
You recognize it, as an alchemist.
There are a lot of elements here that remind you
of very sweet but caustic chemicals
that are used in the creation of potions,
that are used in the creation of compounds
that can break down metals and other such things.
It's a mixture of some alchemy
or elements close to it are done in here.
But then he leads you up another set of stairs
to a tall chamber beneath where you imagine
that strange moving spherical
series of rings were on the top.
As you head into this final room,
the entire chamber itself has these deep grooves
dug into stone across and edge to edge.
And you immediately recognize it.
It is, I mean, it's hundreds and hundreds of lines.
It looks like someone has just dug every possible
line path connecting element here
and for certain magicians or sorcerers,
practitioners of magic, this is essentially
a bunch of pre-set grooves that most
basic and advanced runic circles can be drawn within here
with whatever materials very quickly.
(hands rubbing together)
(exhaling)
This is beautiful.
All the candles immediately light
as you all step inside.
Are we all there or is just--
Just the two of them.
Oh.
I can't help it, I will always
love the architecture of a tower.
We stick with them for a reason,
it seems, as haggling as it may be.
Come, come, set it down.
And he like--
Closer to the heavens.
I start laying stuff out.
So, um, this is what we acquired.
This is very old, these are unfinished but,
but much to be gleaned and I've done my best with them.
I lay out of Halas' stuff.
Mmkay.
And then here is--
He takes his mantle off
and sets it aside and comes over to join you
as you guys start laying it out.
And you see, and he's listening to you with one ear
and the rest of his mind is
in the process of taking in the extent of
what you've already drawn and connected.
And Caleb recognizes that and says,
"Okay, so while you're taking that in,
"Nott help me roll this out.
"And here is what Nott and I have been working on.
"This is my approximation, I've tried to
"fill in some of the blanks and this
"particular knot was hard to unravel, but we did.
"And I know that I'm close,
"but I am sure I am missing something."
Yeah, but he's got that look in his eye, he's close.
I can see that look.
(sighs) All right, I have some ideas.
And he walks over to his shelf and starts
thumbing through different compounds
and pulling out elements and taking out
some additional books under his arm
and basically gets down on the floor with the two of you
and begins attempting to continue this.
You guys are having your cheeses and your snacks.
We're practicing our swaggers.
About 40 minutes rolls by they've been gone
and you guys have just been sitting there
and waiting and talking and they have just not returned.
Looking around his place.
Yeah.
There's a red button to push somewhere.
I don't want to touch anything,
but doing the like looky-looks.
Speak for yourself.
Okay.
I just don't want to, like, he'll know, right?
Boop.
Ugh.
What'd we find?
Well, roll an investigation,
or maybe perception check if you're just looking around.
You, like, looking in his bookshelf
or are you going to the bathroom and, like,
looking in the medicine cabinet
to see what weird medicine he takes?
Like the medicine cabinet type of stuff.
Ooh, what's this cream? (laughs)
Is that a difference, between
medicine cabinet versus just looking?
Well, but whatta ya mean?
You find his bedroom and locate his bathroom.
Yeah, there's a difference between
being like, "What room is this?
Oh, master bath," and being like, "I'm going to go pee,"
and being like, "Ooh," behind the medicine cabinet.
That's some shady shit.
That is some shady shit.
Okay.
I do that
to every house I go to.
You, we know that.
If you invite me over, I'm going to look at all your shit.
(laughter)
So disappointed by the medicated shampoo--
That's why I always put a note in the medicine cabinet
whenever you come over that says, "Hi Sam."
Okay, all right.
You head upstairs, or in the chamber you're in right here,
you can see plainly most of it's just furniture,
it's a hosting chamber, it seems, so a lot of it's dusty.
It's generally just furniture and decor.
Do you go in the staircase above?
Just, which way are you going?
Look for yourself, what are you doing?
Well, I just, I figured we could divide and conquer.
I'll go upstairs.
Okay.
You head up into (laughs).
(roaring)
Oh, that's the end of Beau right there.
This is the next chamber, this is where you see
there are bookshelves aligned in this area,
there are the two doorways, they're closed,
that lead out of the tower to those
walkways you thought you had seen.
There are a couple of small, looks like glass cases
that are off to the side.
What's with those glass cases?
You go ahead and look within.
One of them contains, it looks to be a rod,
maybe about a foot and a half long.
The other one, glancing inside, you can see
there's two books that are locked
with a actual physical lock holding them closed.
Can I see, like, do they have a name, title?
Do you know Undercommon?
Yes, I do now.
You do.
Glancing at one of them, it goes into,
the title at least, and only one of them has a title,
the other one is, like, just a plain leather binding,
like a deep, deep leather, but there's no actual top.
The first one you look over and it says
in Undercommon the equivalent of
the connecting nether between the elements.
You're not quite sure what that refers to
or what the contents might be toying with,
but it seems to be something referring to
the elements.
Okay.
Dark matter shit, all right, cool.
Anything else I can check out?
Do I have time?
There are double doors.
There's the two doors.
And then what else?
Bookshelves?
Bookshelves.
Uh, I just peek out the two doors,
do like a crack and a crack?
Neither of the doors open.
Fuck.
They are closed and they are locked.
(pen clicking)
Right, back to the bookshelves, do a quick scan.
Okay, it's all manner of collection,
all in Undercommon for the most part,
a couple of spattering of Common books.
Some of them are history, some of them deal with
studies of alchemical compounds,
some of them deal with historical recollections
of the Age of Arcanum and what elements
have been collected from what ruins have been found
and it covered writings of
prominent figures during that time period.
You see one that deals with the various societies
and races of Xhorhas and the social dynamics
pre- and post-Dynasty involvement.
These are just the things you,
it's a wide variety of books.
Okay, okay, okay.
I just head back downstairs
and I relay what I found to Fjord.
Glass cases, books.
Man.
That's so tempting, but I mean, we just established
a friendship.
We really,
I don't want to, I don't want to be a dick.
All right, fair, yeah.
I'm just
trying, I'm just being nosy.
What'd you find?
Nothing.
He has no guests, ever.
There's, like, nothing in here.
It's just kind of bland.
I like it.
I think it's really nice in here.
Simple.
It's got nice staircases.
It's a very nice staircase.
I'm going to take out my harp and play a little.
Okay.
To pass the time.
I'm going to dance while she's playing the harp.
Okay, the acoustics--
I'm going to take out
my flute--
Swaggerly dances.
There's got to be something about this guy.
So, she swagger dances and then starts
playing the harp with a beautiful sound fills the chamber
and then the bone flute starts playing.
Oh no, I'm not going to actually, I'm just--
Okay.
(laughter)
I know.
In the interim, go ahead and make
an arcana check with an advantage.
Uh, is it all right if I, oh, with advantage, great.
No need, no need.
Come on.
Roll that shit.
'Kay, cool, cool.
Are we doing doctor--
Cool, cool, cool.
Intelligence or arcana, did you say?
Arcana.
28.
Yes.
Whoa!
(whooping)
Showing off in front of Essek.
Big wizard energy.
(sighing)
The three of you begin to sync and, like,
one person'll pause at a question where they're
at a point in the equation and the next finishes it,
they make eye contact and smile, grab something,
finish that line, grab this piece of paper, toss it to you,
this equation finishes, and rapidly you become,
the three of you become fervored researchers,
on the cusp of a breakthrough.
By the close of the hour, the moment hits
where the equation connects
(gasping)
and the spell is complete.
Oh, oh!
Oh!
Essek stands up and he's like,
(brushes hands together) "I don't, I don't know what to say.
"This is very impressive."
You are amazing.
This does not happen very often.
This is history, pulled from history.
(paper rustling)
Thank you.
Well, you had done most of the legwork yourselves.
Thank you both for this.
Can we do it?
What are the features of this?
Time--
You--
Needed, requirements of components.
The component for this requires a,
about 50 pounds of raw clay,
which the spell consumes,
as well as about
(paper rustling)
a hundred gold worth of ground gem dust,
doesn't matter the gem, and it takes
about an hour to cast the spell.
(pencil scratching on paper)
What does it do?
I'll give you the specifics,
but the overall essence of the spell,
as you look over the final equation, is,
if done properly, it is a permanent alteration
of the target's body from one known humanoid race
to another.
Oh.
(gentle music)
Well.
(exhales)
We need clay, I don't have any.
I don't have any.
No.
You don't have that much clay, do you?
I have a yard.
I've got a shovel.
You're not there.
Oh shit, nevermind.
(laughter)
I was so into it.
A yard, he said?
That's, clay's just--
Dirt.
A special kind of dirt.
Do you?
Caleb just pulls the goblin and the elf in
for just a huge hug and then pulls us all out again.
Do you want to do this now or do you want to think about it?
Uh.
Maybe I'll just give it a day or an hour or a day.
Whatever you need.
This is amazing.
Thank you so much.
Maybe I'll just give it a day, though.
Just to figure out,
yeah, just a day.
(gentle music)
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Yes.
We can do this tomorrow.
Just deliberate on it
for a bit.
Yeah.
(gentle music)
You know, the others are probably wondering--
Yes, it has been some time, my apologies.
They're probably having, like, a threesome.
What do you mean?
Pssh, I got the books!
No, I'm just kidding.
(laughter)
Run!
But, um--
You think Essek and Nott and Caleb?
For what?
I mean, they could just be,
you know, having a real good time up there.
I assume they are having a really good time up there.
So you probably think they're having a threesome?
I don't--
Maybe
they're churning butter.
That'd be good because
I'd really like to make another round of these crackers.
I feel like we can improve on this.
Yeah, they need more sugar.
A little bit more sugar, not what I did,
let's all forget what I did yesterday,
but we could, we could, oh, I got to
take a look at the kitchen, see what we got.
We work well together.
We should explore other things.
Other things.
I have some ideas.
There are favors owed still.
Anyway, let's get back to the rest of
your friends.
Yes, yes.
They're probably fucking down there or something.
(laughter)
Probably having a fivesome.
Gather up the notes, the finalization of the spell,
hands it to you, and you guys return.
You hear the door upstairs.
You go towards where you think
the kitchen might be and the door is locked.
Well, this is half the problem right here.
(laughter)
Fucking doors.
(throat clearing)
You hear the familiar footsteps of Caleb and Nott.
Caleb has Nott backpack-style with
a real spring in his step coming down the stairs.
Hey!
Hey, sorry to keep you--
Did you guys have so much fun?
We did, it's a lovely, it's a lovely lab.
Do you feel relaxed and carefree?
Energized.
Really?
Yeah.
Oh shit, you were right.
He is intelligent.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
He knows his way around?
And he can float!
Mm-hmm.
Just saying.
He's right over there.
Oh, hi.
He's heading down after the two of them.
You seem like you're in a very good mood.
Knowledge, knowledge can do that to you, right?
Everything go okay?
Everything work out?
Where are we at?
We, I've learned things
that I did not know even an hour ago.
Yeah.
You'll be happy to know we didn't explore too far.
We did go upstairs and look at your sort of
lair of bookshelves and your glass cases
and we tried to wander further but it's locked.
They did, we stayed here.
We're very polite.
Hey, we own that shit.
Tried to find the kitchen.
I'm curious.
I don't care what you keep in your home, so.
Well, I appreciate all of that, mostly.
(sighs) But quite a discovery made by these two.
Well--
Mm-hmm.
What discovery?
We may, we may have a way to, uh, to fix me.
(gasping)
Yeah, yeah.
Really?
How do you feel about that?
You know, excited.
Yeah?
The permanent fix you've been looking for this whole time?
So it seems, yeah.
Back to your original form?
Uh huh.
Essek, that's incredible.
Wow.
Don't look at me, I was merely a final catalyst.
This is work they had already continued from--
Well, it's mostly Caleb.
You are,
you are both downplaying your contribution.
Well, if we're going to be honest,
the biggest contribution here is a
mage long before our time.
Oh, Halas.
True.
True, standing on the shoulders of giants.
Indeed.
Very hard, they're very aggressive.
Are we?
If we were successful, yes, are you--
Yeah, why aren't you, why aren't you already changed?
I just, I just need to maybe let it sit for a second,
just think about what this would, you know.
I'm going to do it.
Of course, I'll do it, I'll do it,
I just, you know, where there's risks involved.
We've never done it before.
Yeah, what is the risk?
What happens if it's not successful?
Who knows?
Do you accidentally
turn into a wooly mammoth or something?
I don't think so, there's not enough clay for that.
Gathering looking at the equation,
if done correctly, there's no drawback
beyond just the cost of materials lost.
Wow.
Yeah, but, I mean, we don't know that, right?
We don't know, so.
Oh,
do any of you have crushed gem dust left?
We did have some.
I'll have to take a look.
We did, we used a lot of it for, you know, our tattoos.
Don't need much, about a hundred gold pieces worth.
Can't be that hard to find.
No.
I have a diamond worth 50 gold.
We don't have any dust left
but we can find some.
That shouldn't be too hard.
Certainly.
And it seems like you want to, you know,
just prepare yourself because it's been so long--
Well also, we don't have any, we don't have
the materials so we can't do it now anyway.
What are the materials needed?
We need clay, which Essek is saying
he could provide for us.
A lot of clay, yeah.
Okay.
Which he could provide to us.
And then we would need to get some gemstone dust,
which either we have some or, um,
this is a very large, beautiful city,
I'm sure that we could acquire some.
Do you need to be here in order to perform this spell
or is it something you want to--
I don't think so.
Travel with and--
That's a lot of, I don't know.
Well--
So you can get clay.
I would recommend doing it--
Controlled.
Doing it here or somewhere,
yes, a controlled environment.
How long do you need?
An hour?
Wow.
I know, right?
No but you could do it right now.
We just go out, probably, just go out
and get some gem dust while people start digging.
Yeah.
Do you want to go source another 50 gold of gems
and I could assist Essek and certainly Caduceus could
help us gather how much, how much clay in particular?
Lots of clay?
50 pounds.
50 pounds, right?
Oh, that's not too bad.
Nott, I feel like you're hesitant.
Well yeah, I mean, of course.
It's just been a long time coming.
I didn't think, like, this morning would be the time.
I sort of assumed that it would be an ordeal
and I'd have to die or something to do it again.
And so, it's, it's just odd that it's so--
Doable?
Easy.
Well, after months of traveling together
and--
Wow.
I mean, you already died once.
No, I don't want to die again, trust me.
I just, uh.
Are you kind of used to being in this body now?
No, I hate this body, it's awful.
It's just, what do I, you know, what do I do after?
You stay with us for a little bit.
You help us keep doing what we are doing,
you just look different.
Why would I do that?
Because you love us.
Are you afraid that if you
get your old body back that it means--
You got to go leave us and go back to Yeza and your son?
Because that's, like, totally a manifested condition
that you're putting on the situation.
Not really.
But also, I understand.
It is important, you know, you have a son.
No, I know.
He misses you.
I know.
That is a--
It's hard for a--
Conundrum.
Hard for
a son to be away from a mother.
I want to be there.
What about this?
You've done so much with us and it feels like we're close
to achieving a historic peace treaty between two nations.
Maybe that's the punctuation mark you're looking for?
Yeah, like one last run.
Yeah.
Traveler Con?
The last chapter in--
Really important.
This book
of adventures for you.
Getting your body back
just doesn't have to be a final pin in the story,
is all I'm trying to say.
We certainly need you.
We'd be shortsighted.
But we, you, (sighs) you know, we wouldn't,
(sighs) judge you if you wanted to stay with us for awhile.
Or if you wanted to go home.
Yeah, but if you wanted to stay with us for awhile.
Yeah, I, I do.
Of course I do.
I just don't,
I want,
what I want is
just contrary to what, what we've been doing,
and so it's just a bit of a change, you know?
Um.
I mean, yeah, you're right, I suppose I could just
change, you know, just change my body, right,
and then continue on with you guys just for a little bit,
until we come to a,
a spot where,
where that's it.
Well, you know we would, um, be ensuring peace
for your family, for your son,
for the Empire, if we pull this off.
That is commendable.
Yeah.
Uh, yeah.
Let's do it, then.
Um, Nott, could you
show us what you looked like?
Yeah, of course.
Uh.
Yeah, I'll transform into Veth.
And you've seen Veth in the illusion
of Veth before many times.
A very clear vision of the beautiful
half-elf girl, sorry, halfling girl.
Mm-hmm.
(sighs) Hi.
Hi.
Caleb, a little shaky, but walks around
and just gets every detail and angle.
Do you have to do this?
You have to do this.
The spellcaster has to choose the form,
is that how this works?
I would think so.
It's kind of a combination of the two.
If the spellcaster wants, it can be
entirely of their making,
but it could be a mutual agreed upon scenario.
It's the idea between, the spell, in theory,
could be put upon somebody without their consent.
It might be what happened to her before?
It was a different type of experience.
So, in theory, the spell can be used
to transform somebody against their will,
but that would be, that would involve a saving throw.
If it is a, it is something that
you are consenting with the caster on,
then the form can be agreed upon in essentially
a shared vision and no saving throw required.
We'll do what we always do, we'll do it together.
Mm-hmm, yeah.
Caleb and Nott.
All right.
I guess, do you own a shovel?
I have, I have a shovel.
You just carry it around?
Where does it--
It's on my belt,
it's just a little folding thing.
Living in a cemetery.
Yeah.
That's true.
Nott, we can,
Caduceus and I can go to town.
I can go find some gem dust for you.
That would be nice.
I'll help team clay.
Yeah.
Think you can find some gem dust with me, Fjord?
Sure, yeah.
Yeah, he can't dig,
so, yeah.
What?
I mean, come on.
Oh.
(laughter)
(clapping)
I will go with Jester, find some gems.
I will find nothing but cubic zirconia for your bitch ass.
(laughter)
She comes out like a Picasso.
I don't know why it didn't work!
(laughter)
It's an easy enough shopping trip
since the gems themselves are not specific,
it's just a certain worth of it.
Once again, requesting them crushed up
by another jeweler is a unique reaction,
but you acquire the gem dust easy enough.
Through the rapid conjuring of water
and the group aid, you are able to
both help facilitate and excise
enough clay to facilitate the spell.
Within less than an hour, the materials have been gathered.
What time of day is it?
At this point, early afternoon.
Yeah, about early afternoon,
two o'clock, three o'clock, maybe.
You want to do this right now
or you still want to sleep on it?
(gentle music)
I mean, it's the best place to do it,
in a powerful mage's tower, right?
We don't have to leave town immediately
if you wanted to stay here and sleep on it.
There's no judgment, you don't need to make this decision
right away.
Yeah.
You should do it when it feels right, too.
Yasha, you all right?
I don't know why, this is making me weirdly sad.
I mean, yeah.
This has been, uh,
we've had adventures together
and loss and success and
I don't know how I'll be after this, you know?
I guess, in a weird way, you are,
a version of you is dying
in order to complete this.
I don't know if I'll,
I mean, I won't look the same,
obviously, but I don't know if
I'll think the same about you all.
Why wouldn't you?
You're the same you.
I don't know that.
Just your body's going to be different.
(gentle music)
I've had all sorts of different feelings
and things happen to me since becoming this form
and I don't know what's what anymore.
It all feels,
I don't know, normal now.
You treat me normal, everyone around here treats me normal.
That's because you are.
It's just which normal you want.
Yeah.
But what if I'm not as agile, nimble?
What if I can't aim as quickly or hide as easily?
Your aim's kind of iffy anyway, I--
Wish I'd have got another one of those explosive ones.
(chuckling)
Kind of glad you don't.
If you trade out
a few traits, you're not going to be left without.
Are you sure about that?
You will be a member of The Mighty Nein.
You will be our friend.
Not if I can't shoot or I can't pick locks or--
I think I know what you're saying.
I had to make a choice and it changed everything,
no certainty of what was on the other side.
You've been trying so hard to get to this point
and you have the ability now.
There's no reason for you to do it immediately.
Unless you absolutely are sure you want to
and the time is right, then you shouldn't.
Otherwise, that uncertainty could lead to regret
or anything else that you couldn't predict.
Wait if you're not ready.
We're here for you.
(gentle music)
I guess the thing I'm most scared of is if,
right after I change, I won't want to stay.
(gentle music)
(sighing)
Well, that would be okay, too.
Nott, I don't think any of us can
give you that answer and you know that,
but whatever you want to do,
we're here.
(gentle music)
I love you all.
Let's do it.
(gentle music)
Do you want bigger tits this time around?
Yep.
They're really big, I mean.
Every man likes even a little bigger.
I don't think that's necessarily true.
Well, yes it does--
He likes big--
Make them how you want them, don't do it for anybody else.
You know what, you're right.
It'll hurt my back.
I'll just make them a little smaller.
You might be more agile
if they're--
Make them however
you want it to be.
Yeah.
I mean, titties are just great, regardless.
For sure.
All shapes and sizes are good.
Yeah.
Small ones, big ones, dangly ones.
I'll mold your titties, if you
want me to be in charge of that.
You'll mold my titties?
Well, I'm assuming we have to make, like,
a clay version of the view you want to turn into.
I'm totally just making this shit up.
That's not all how it works.
(laughter)
If that is the case, then I absolutely
want Beau to mold my titties and no one else
because she has the most experience with them.
(laughter)
And she's got deft, deft
fingers and hands--
That might not
entirely be true.
(laughter)
(clapping)
Oh!
Do tell.
(laughter)
(clapping)
That's a story for another time.
We'll swap titty tales.
Her name was Crayola.
Her name was Cerulean.
(laughter)
(chuckling)
I suppose I will go prepare
the chamber, and um. (clears throat)
And he goes ahead and lifts a hand towards the hunk of clay.
"If I could have some help?"
Hmm, yeah, right.
You lift it and it's half the weight
it was before you grabbed it.
"Come."
Is that right?
Heading upstairs.
All right.
Is that right? (laughs)
It feels light, but.
You all follow?
Yeah.
Yeah, of course.
Heading back into the research chamber
where you had completed this equation,
you begin setting up exactly the ritual that
you had partially uncovered, partially designed.
Arranging all manner of materials,
taking the clay itself and molding it into
essentially a small trough, if you will,
to contain Nott as part of the ritual.
Eventually, you set up the right incense to burn,
the light in the chamber is closed with a curtain,
and as you finish preparations,
it is set for the hour ritual.
I crouch down before her.
"Nott the Brave,
"Veth Brenatto,
"you are here."
And he taps just above her heart.
"And you are here."
He touches just between her eyes.
"You are you and you will continue to be you.
"And we are here.
"You ready?"
(sighing)
I'll just, I lean forward and sweetly kiss him on the lips
and say, "Thank you, Caleb, for getting me this far
"and for devoting yourself to, to me.
"You're a good man
"and I, I hope you find to where you're going, too."
(sighing)
All right, do the thing.
Cups the side of her cheek.
"This will be our best trick yet."
We have to name it.
Preparing, as you pull the sleeves back,
you take the scattered elements of the crushed gems
and place them across Nott's body
as you lay down into the clay.
That's wet.
The ritual begins as the lines begin to
draw around, the incantations begin.
All of you sit back and watch
as the wind begins to pick up.
The temperature shifts and alters,
the cold of the clay heats around your body,
and you feel it begin to actually move.
You watch as the clay begins to slowly
almost melt in reverse, upward,
and then eventually encasing elements of Nott's body.
As the magic begins to swirl and gather,
minutes seem to stretch longer than you expected.
It's a place where time momentarily
seems to not really have an impact.
Words you try and speak draw out slowly.
As part of this ritual, it's an encapsulation within itself
and all of you are just bystanders
watching a new magic be birthed.
As you progress, you reach out
and extend your thoughts towards Nott,
and Nott, you concentrate and focus on
the image of who you truly are, in the heart of hearts.
As you feel the clay begin to cool and turn cold around you,
you engage the second element of the spell.
Now, the woven threads of arcane power
pierce the clay and pierce Nott's body
to begin the process of rearrangement.
Excitement begins to flow through you at the knowledge
that you have the ability at your fingertips to do this,
after so many times of discussing
and contemplating and daydreaming.
This is the moment where you are the surgeon at work.
And you go in for that first incision
and you're blocked.
And you pull and it should be working
and you push again and you're blocked.
There's something dark, something in the way,
and you don't know what it is and it's frustrating.
You shake your head and tense your eyes
and as you push a third time, it pushes back.
All of you watch as the clay suddenly cracks,
shatters across the room, sending shards everywhere,
you're having to block your eyes.
The window blasts open a little bit.
The spell itself, the ritual,
the containment field of energy suddenly drops.
All you hear, between the two of you,
as the shadow that encases Nott, is this terrible laugh.
(cackling)
All that you recall is the last time
you heard that laugh.
That motherfucker.
When you were placed beneath that water.
You've sensed this before, things like this,
but lying deep in the heart of Nott's form
lies a curse that still holds her,
something that still grips her essence
from whatever creature laid this fate upon her.
And that's where we'll pick up next time.
(groaning)
Holy shit!
Oh.
You've grazed her.
The orbs of magic.
(laughter)
Holy moly.
(exhaling)
Okay, okay, okay.
Who was dis bitch?
(laughter)
I don't know.
I'm going to
have to fuck some shit up.
We got to go this find this, this here witch.
Yup, yup.
Am I alive?
Are you okay?
Where am I?
Are you there?
You're encased in black what?
To give you some--
We're back in, everybody.
For the final moment to return to Nott.
Yeah, no no, for the moment, when all of you
look at this and realize the sound,
that Nott, you are safe, you are fine,
you are where you were sitting--
Am I alive?
You're alive,
but you're still in your goblin body,
unchanged.
Oh.
So.
Who could hear the laugh?
Just Caleb?
Just Caleb and Nott.
The two that were directly connected as part of this ritual.
Alive, spell thwarted.
Correct.
And the components consumed but the spell thwarted
by whatever, whatever strange curse still holds her.
Ooh, he made you do the exercise
and then ripped it from ya!
(laughter)
I wasn't ready to say bye to Nott.
Whoa.
Oh, man.
Your eyes got all red and teary and it went, "Fuck you."
(laughter)
(whooping)
Remove five or ten, how much?
50 gold from your thing.
Interesting, interesting.
So, we'll see here this goes next week.
Gosh.
(groaning)
Take you down to Goblin Town.
(chuckling)
Oh, I was so curious to meet the halfling.
Hoo.
I know.
You may still yet.
We'd best kill her, we'll just kill her next episode.
She at all.
That's right.
You don't know.
I lied about my story a hundred times before.
If you'd been faking, he has a,
a dude's collective checks.
That's right.
(laughter)
Completes the ritual and Nott emerges as a, like, goliath.
(talking over each other)
(laughter)
Yeza was an actor.
And Luc was, like, a really small actor.
(laughter)
"Hey, when do I get my 50 bucks?"
(talking over each other)
Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.
Anyway.
It'll be like Andy.
Yeah, new.
We'll pick that up next week.
Thank you guys for joining us.
Please don't forget, we love you very much
and there's a Thursday ep.
Good night.
(groaning)
(dramatic music)